# Report
---
These are the distinct values associated with metadata.oai_qdc:qualifieddc.dc:description:

1. Letter from Indian Affairs agent Return J. Meigs to United States Secretary of War Henry Dearborn offering Meigs' support of Gideon Blackburn's intentions to establish a school for Cherokee Indian children in Hamilton County, Tennessee.
2. Letter from Indian Affairs agent Return J. Meigs advocating for Gideon Blackburn as superintendent of the Cherokee Mission in Hamiton County, Tennesse, citing  Blackburn's previous experience creating a Cherokee mission on the Hiwassee River in Tennessee in 1804.
3. Confirmation of receipt of 150 dollars for the management Cherokee mission schools from Return J. Meigs, Indian Affairs agent.
4. Confirmation of receipt of 100 dollars for the management Cherokee mission schools from Return J. Meigs, Indian Affairs agent.
5. Letter from Cherokee Chief Pathkiller to Brainerd Mission founder Cyrus Kingsbury requesting that Kingsbury supply 18 families with 6 bushels of corn at a price of $1.50 per bushel, cost to be incurred by the United States Indian Affairs Agency and to be charged to the Cherokee annuity.
6. Receipt for $9-15 spent by Cyrus Kingsbury, a founder of Brainerd Mission.
7. Confirmation of receipt of 100 dollars from Indian Affairs Agent Return J. Meigs for the construction of a dormitory for "female scholars" at Brainerd Mission.
8. Letter from Brainerd Mission founder Ard Hoyt to Indian Affairs Agent Return J. Meigs detailing the construction of the women's school at Brainerd Mission requesting more funds for completion of the building.
9. Letter from United States Secretary of War William H. Crawford to Brainerd Mission founder Cyrus Kingsbury conveying approval from the President for the establishment of a Cherokee mission school. Crawford outlines President James Madison's request for an annual report to address the "progress and future prospects" of Brainerd Mission.
10. Postcard print of a woodcut of Brainerd Mission.
11. Print of a woodcut of Brainerd Mission.
12. Photograph of Reverend Marston Freeman, Pastor of Pilgrim Congregational Church, in front of Brainerd Mill on Chickamauga Creek. Facsimile created from an article published in the 1 June 1924 issue of the Chattanooga Times newspaper.
13. Photograph of an image of Elizur Butler, a physician at Brainerd Mission under the auspices of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Facsimile created from an article published in the 27 August 1933 issue of the Chattanooga Times newspaper.
14. Photographic facsimile of an image of Cyrus Kingsbury, who founded Brainerd Mission under the guidance of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions in 1817.
15. Photograph of Nancy Thompson, a Cherokee missionary working for the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Facsimile created from an article published in a 1928 June issue of Presbyterian Magazine.
16. Photograph of Samuel Austin Worcerster, a missionary to the Cherokee who worked for the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions at Brainerd Mission from 1825 to 1827. Facsimile created from an article published in a 1928 June issue of Presbyterian Magazine.
17. Photograph of the dedication ceremony for the second roster tablet of missionaries installed at Brainerd Mission Cemetery.
18. Photograph of the gates at the entrance to the Brainerd Mission cemetery.
19. Color photograph of the memorial gates at the entrance to the Brainerd Misison cemetery.
20. Postcard of the Old Brainerd Mission Cemetery.
21. Photograph of the Lena Barton Kain Bench Dedication Ceremony held at Brainerd Mission Cemetery to commemorate Kain's work with the Daughters of the American Revolution to preserve the history of Brainerd Mission and its cemetery.
22. Photographic facsimile of a life-size portrait of United States Indian Affairs Agent, Return J. Meigs, painted by Rembrandt Peale by order of the federal government.
23. Annual report authored Brainerd Mission founder Ard Hoyt for review by the United States Secretary of War John C. Calhoun providing an update on the progress of the Cherokee mission school.
24. Letter from Martha Ellsworth Morse, who was born at Brainerd Mission to missionaries John C. and Eliza Ellsworth, recalling the original condition of the cemetery and other missionaries, including the Vail family and Samuel Worcester. Martha also describes her father's disinterrment of Worcester's bones at the request of his friends or childen, so that they might be buried in Massachusetts.
25. Letter from Lin D. Cartwright to Mrs. Willard Steele, expressing appreciation of Steele's efforts to preserve the cemetery at Brainerd Mission.
26. Hand drawn map of the Tennessee Ocoee District showing the original plats of Brainerd Mission along Chickamauga Creek.
27. Letter from Mrs. M. S. Freeman to Mrs. Martin enclosing a letter  from Rockwell Potter, the President of the American Board of Commissions for Foreign Missions, appointing Mr. and Mrs. Freeman and Dr. William W. Peck to represent the Board at the commemoration of the Brainerd Mission cemetery.
28. Letter from Gladys Cowan to Penelope J. Allen containing to quotations from Ecclesiasticus and John Oxenham for her to use is a program.
29. A letter sent from a member of the Blunt family to Mrs. J. H. Abel responding to a questions about Blunt family geneaology. The Blunt family included several Brainerd missionaries.
30. Letter to Mrs. Penelope J. Allen from Sallie M. Conner detailing the Conner family tree to her in order to establish her family connection with the Brainerd Mission. Connor describes her family's connection to John Vail and the exhumation of Samuel Worcester.
31. Postcard from Sallie M. Conner to Penelope J. Allen inviting Allen to view items from Brainerd Mission, stored at the home of Connor's son, Jesse.
32. Letter from Forrest R. Holdcamper to Robert Sparks Walker detailing the different post office branches that might have served Brainerd Mission.
33. Letter from Lena B. Kain to Penelope J. Allen enclosing a picture of the Brainerd Mission Cemetery.
34. Letter from Winona Campbell to Penelope J. Allen containing a color photograph of the Brainerd Mission cemetery gates.
35. Letter from Anne B. Hyde to Penelope J. Allen containing a quote from her father to use at the dedication of Brainerd Cemetery.
36. Letter from Anne B. Hyde to Penelope J. Allen discussing her current ailment and mentions her excitement about Penelope J. Allen's Book on Brainerd Mission.
37. Letter from J. B. Pound to George M. Clark referring to the Hotel Patten's interest in donating $500 to the Brainerd Mission Foundation.
38. Letter from George M. Clark to J. B. Pound thanking him for his contribution of $500 to the Brainerd Mission Foundation.
39. Letter from George M. Clark with Zella Armstrong, Robert Sparks Walker, and James L. Fowle informing them of J. B. Pound's donation to the Brainerd Mission Foundation and then discussing the next steps in the project, and how much money they need to raise to preserve the cemetery.
40. Letter from George M. Clark to Mrs. Griffin Martin asking for information about the whereabouts of the Brainerd Mission charter and the pewter communion service.
41. Letter from the Third Assistant Postmaster General to Senator Nathan L. Bachman denying the request for a special postage stamp to commemorate Brainerd mission.
42. Letter from United States Senator Nathan L. Bachman to Penelope J. Allen forwarding the response of the Post Office Department about a special stamp for Brainerd Mission after her inquiry about the endeavor.
43. Letter from D. W. McKellar to Penelope J. Allen agreeing to take up the matter of trying to establish a commemorative postage stamp for Brainerd Mission with the Post Office Department in Senator Douglas McKellar's name.
44. Letter from the Office of the Secretary of the Department of State to Penelope J. Allen announcing that her copy of the resolution proposing a commemorative stamp was received and going to be sent forward to the department for comment.
45. Letter from Senator Kenneth Mckellar to Penelope J. Allen enclosing the refusal of the Post Office Department to establish a commemorative stamp of Brainerd Mission.
46. Letter from Penelope J. Allen to Senator Kenneth McKellar detailing a brief history of Brainerd Mission to advocate for a commemorative stamp.
47. Letter from D. W. McKellar to Penelope J. Allen announcing the senators continued absence from Washington and acknowledging her letter.
48. Letter from the Daughters of the American Revolution requesting a Brainerd Mission commemorative stamp.
49. Photograph of a Daughters of the American Revolution dedication ceremony at Brainerd Mission to install plaques in commemoration of the missionaries.
50. Letter from the Third Assistant Postmaster Genneral to Mrs. Allen Harris denying the request of a commemorative stamp for Brainerd Mission.
51. Petition from the Daughters of the American Revolution requesting a commemorative stamp for Brainerd Mission.
52. Program for the installation and dedication of two commemorative plaques listing the missionaries interred at Brainerd Mission cemetery,
53. Several drafts of the address given at the Brainerd Missionaries dedication ceremony by Chattanooga, Tennessee historian and author, Robert Sparks Walker.
54. Research notes authored by Penelope J. Allen on the history of American Board of Foreign Missions, and Brainerd Mission.
55. Roster of Brainerd Missionaries.
56. Short biographies of prominent people connected to Brainerd Mission.
57. Letter from Newell Sanders to Penelope J. Allen reporting on his visit with a Mr. and Mrs. Forman, and the historical tours of Brainerd Mission and Cherokee Indian sites Sanders provided.
58. Letter from W.C. Johnson to Penelope J. Allen informing her of a contact, P. M. Fink and his father J. M., explaining their interest and information on the Cherokee Nation.
59. Letter from Frances Park Stiles to Penelope J. Allen explaining his interest in the Cherokee Nation.
60. Letter from Robert S. Parker to Penelope J. Allen regarding Allen's trip to Oklahoma.
61. Letter from Frances Park Stiles to Penelope J. Allen containing information from Stiles' paper of the Cherokee Nation for her research.
62. Photograph of the John Ross Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution seated in the Brainerd Mission cemetery.
63. Photograph of the John Ross chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution event at the Brainerd Mission cemetery.
64. The minutes for the Cherokee Historical Society in 1930.
65. Program of the annual Flag Raising Ceremony by the Tennessee Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution and the Sons of the American Revolution.
66. Address by Lena Barton Kain at a dedication ceremony to install a bench to commemorate Kain's historic preservation efforts.
67. A pamphlet published by the New Brainerd Pioneer Bank containing pictures of the old Brainerd Mission.
68. Letter dated 1862 November 21, from Annie A. Moore to Mrs. Ames thanking her for donations of money and clothing made by Mrs. Ames and her husband and also telling her about “Aunty Bigelow’s” illness. There is an addendum to the letter by H. R. Sharples also referencing the donations and Mrs. Bigelow’s illness.
69. Letter dated 1865 December 15, from Mrs. R. M. Bigelow to Mrs. Ames.  Mrs. Bigelow talks about an invitation she received to participate in  the founding of a school, her participation in lady's aid societies, and what she is planning for Christmas.
70. Letter dated 1866 April 16, from Mrs. R. M. Bigelow to Mrs. Ames. Mrs. Bigelow talks predominantly about a young female friend that she is caring for who is quite ill with typhoid fever. She also talks about several letters received from friends.
71. Letter dated 1866 May 9 from Mrs. R. M. Bigelow to Mrs. Ames. Mrs Bigelow is asking for assistance with a lady's aid organization fair.
72. Edition of weekly newsletter published by Black Knights, Inc., an organization dedicated to bringing news pertinent to the black community of Chattanooga. This issue discusses the riots which happened at Brainerd High School during the fall of 1969.
73. Christmas edition of the Black United Front newsletter published by Black Knights, Inc., an organization dedicated to bringing news pertinent to the black community of Chattanooga. Contains hand-drawn advertisements for black-owned businesses in Chattanooga.
74. Edition of weekly newsletter published by Black Knights, Inc., an organization dedicated to bringing news pertinent to the black community of Chattanooga. This issue outlines the 8 Point Knight Program, a list of demands for the black community of Chattanooga, Tennessee.
75. Edition of weekly newsletter published by Black Knights, Inc., an organization dedicated to bringing news pertinent to the black community of Chattanooga. This issue focuses on the violence that occurred at Brainerd High School in Chattanooga, Tennessee during the spring of 1970.
76. Edition of weekly newsletter published by Black Knights, Inc., an organization dedicated to bringing news pertinent to the black community of Chattanooga. Contains hand-drawn political cartoons, as well as updates on various forms of discrimination present in Chattanooga.
77. History of the Cavalier Corporation presented at the Cavalier National Sales Conference by William G. Raoul, vice president of the company.
78. Overview of the Cavalier Corporation located in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
79. Comparative balance sheet of the Cavalier Corporation including assets, liabilities, and an accountants' report.
80. Postcard of Chattanooga, Tennessee.
81. Postcard of the Bluff View Art District in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
82. Postcard of the Read House, an historic inn, located in downtown Chattanooga, Tennessee.
83. Postcard of Terminal Station located in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
84. Postcard of Signal Point located on Signal Mountain in Tennessee.
85. Postcard of Point Lookout located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
86. Postcard of Cravens House and Point Lookout.
87. Postcard of Cravens House and Point Lookout located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
88. Postcard of the entrance to Point Park battlefield located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
89. Postcard of Rock City located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
90. Postcard of Ochs Memorial and Point Rock on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
91. Umbrella Rock on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
92. Postcard of Natural Bridge, located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
93. Postcard of Sunset Rock on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
94. Postcard of the swinging bridge in Rock City located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
95. Postcard of Fat Man's Squeeze in Rock City located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
96. Postcard of the manufacturing district in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
97. Postcard of Chickmauga Battlefield located in Tennessee.
98. Postcard of Wilder Tower at Chickamauga Battlefield.
99. Postcard of Florida State Monument at Chickmauga Battlefield.
100. Postcard of the Kentucky State Monument at Chickamauga Battlefield.
101. Postcard of Ropers Rock located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
102. Postcard of bridges spanning downtown and north Chattanooga.
103. Postcard of downtown Chattanooga, Tennessee.
104. Postcard depicting an aerial view of Moccasin Bend in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
105. Postcard of the Chickamauga Battlefield Georgia State Monument.
106. Postcard of Lookout Mountain located in Tennessee.
107. Postcard of Umbrella Rock located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
108. Postcard of the Lookout Mountain Incline Railway.
109. Postcard of the marker and canons of the memorial to Garrity's Alabama Battery on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
110. Postcard depicting Cravens House and the monument to the soliders from Ohio who faught in the in Battle of Lookout Mountain on 1863 November 24.
111. Postcard of an aerial view of Chattanooga and the surrounding area as seen from Point Lookout located on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
112. Postcard depicting the road that leads to the top of Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
113. Postcard of poem about Lookout Mountain, Tennessee.
114. Postcard depicting a cannon used by Confederate forces during the American Civil War located on Point Lookout on Lookout Mountain in Tennessee.
115. Viewbook of Chattanooga and Lookout Mountain, Tennessee including photographs Civil War battlefields.
116. Viewbooks of Chattanooga, Tennessee at surrounding areas published in the early 1900s.
117. Viewbook of Chattanooga, Tennessee and surrounding areas published in the 1910s.
118. Viewbook of the University of Chattanooga published as part of the university's first student publication, The University Lookout.
119. Viewbook of Lookout Mountain, Tennessee.
120. Postcard depicting the Tennessee River and Lookout Mountain.
121. Postcard depciting the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee with the Tennessee River and Lookout Mountain in the background.
122. Postcard depicting railroad tracks located at the base of Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
123. Postcard depticting railroad tracks along the west brow of Lookout Mountain.
124. Postcard depticting the Lokout Mountain incline railway in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
125. Postcard depticting the Lookout Mountain incline railway in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
126. Postcard depicting Roper's Rock location on Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
127. Postcard depicting a man standing next to Umbrella Rock, a rock formation located on Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
128. Postcard depicting a youg girls standing on top of Umbrella Rock, a rock formation located on Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
129. Postcard depicting Sunset Rock, a bluff located on Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
130. Postcard depicting Lulah Falls located on Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
131. Postcard depicting Point Hotel, which was located on Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The hotel was constructed in 1887 and razed sometime during the 1910s.
132. Postcard depicting a bird's-eye view of the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee.
133. Postcard depicting a residence located at the corner of Oak and Douglas Streets in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
134. Postcard depicting city hall sent by Chattanooga, Tennessee Mayor A. L. "Chunk" Bender. Bender held the office of mayor of the CIty of Chattanooga from 1969 to 1971.
135. Souvenir viewbook of postcards depicting carious sites in and around Chattanooga, Tennessee, including Lookout Mountain, Walden's Ridge, and downtown.
136. Souvenir viewbook of postcards depicting carious sites in and around Chattanooga, Tennessee, including Lookout Mountain, Signal Mountain, and downtown.
137. Souvenir viewbook of postcards depicting carious sites in and around Chattanooga, Tennessee, including Lookout Mountain, Walden's Ridge, and the National Cemetery.
138. Black and white photograph of Fall Creek.
139. Black and white photograph of Fall Creek Falls.
140. Postcard depciting a street scene in Fountain Square, located in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
141. Oral history interview documenting the history of women in Chattanooga conducted as part of the work of the City of Chattanooga's Mayor's Council for Women History Committee, which was established in 2015 to create positive change to advance the status of women and their families in the city and throughout the region.
142. This oral history is the product of a collaboration between the City of Chattanooga Mayor's Council for Women History Subcommittee, Southern Adventist University, and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Funding for transcription of this interview was provided by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Collaborative Research Initiative for Sponsored Programs grant.
143. This oral history is the product of a collaboration between the City of Chattanooga Mayor's Council for Women History Subcommittee and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Funding for transcription of this interview was provided, in part, by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Collaborative Research Initiative for Sponsored Programs grant.
144. Oral history interview documenting this history of women in Chattanooga conducted as part of the work of the City of Chattanooga's Mayor's Council for Women History Committee, which was established in 2015 to create positive change to advance the status of women and their families in the city and throughout the region.
145. This oral history is the product of a collaboration between the City of Chattanooga Mayor's Council for Women History Subcommittee, Covenant College, and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Funding for transcription of this interview was provided, in part, by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Ruth S. Holmberg Grant for Faculty Excellence.
146. Remarks delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor at a memorial service for President John F. Kennedy held in Patten Chapel.
147. Remarks delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor at a memorial service for Frank Boyer, a chemistry professor.
148. Remarks delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor at a memorial service for Enid Bryan, an English professor.
149. Remarks delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor at a memorial service for Edwin S. Lindsey, an English professor.
150. Remarks delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor at a memorial service for former provost, August Eberle.
151. Speech delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor to the local Kiwanis Club.
152. Speech delivered by University of Chattanooga professor George Connor to the local Rotard Club.
153. Speech delivered by George Connor at a University of the South Friends of the Library meeting.
154. Speech delivered by George Connor at a Friends of the Bicentennial Library meeting.
155. Speech delivered by George Connor at a Feast of the Epiphany service.
156. Undated lecture delivered by George Connor in a Thorne Sparkman School of Religion course held at St. Paul's Episcopal Church.
157. Welcome speech at the opening dinner of the Unviersity of Chattanooga's first English Institute.
158. Address delivered to the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Alpha Society.
159. Remarks delivered by University of Tennessee at Chattanooga professor George Connor at the opening of the T. Cartter and Margaret Rawlings Lupton Library.
160. Remarks delivered by University of Tennessee at Chattanooga professor George Connor at a retirement dinner for Elizabeth Massey, a member of the faculty in the Deparment of Foreign Languages.
161. University of Tennessee at Chattanooga commencement address delivered by Professor of English George Connor.
162. Address at the annual dinner meeting of the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Alpha Society.
163. Speech delivered by George Connor, identified by the author as "one of the 2 or 3 most signifcant speeches in my career."
164. Photograph of a barn on the grounds of artist Henry Moore's home and studio, Hoglands.
165. Exterior view of artist Henry Moore's home and studio, Hoglands.
166. Photograph of studio in artist Henry Moore's home and studio, Hoglands.
167. Photograph of a greenhouse on the grounds of artist Henry Moore's home and studio, Hoglands.
168. Black-and-white prints on paper of trees hanging in artist Henry Moore's home and studio, Hoglands.
169. Photograph of an interior view of a studio with an elephant's skull at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
170. Photograph of Knife Edge Two Piece and Upright Motive No. 2 on the grounds of Hoglands, created by artist Henry Moore in 1962 and 1955-1956 respectively.
171. Photograph of stone slabs and sculptures in artist Henry Moore's home and studio, Hoglands.
172. Photograph of an exterior view of a studio at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
173. Interior view of a studio at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio. Upright Internal/External Form, created in 1952 and 1953 is visible.
174. Photograph of plaster and bronze sculptures on display in a studio at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio. The plaster and string sculpture is Reclining Figure, created in 1950. The bronze sculpture is unidentified.
175. Photograph of a artist Henry Moore's desk at Hoglands, his home and studio.
176. Interior view of a studio at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
177. Exterior view of a studio at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
178. Photograph of sculptures taken at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
179. Photograph of Upright Motive No. 7, created by artist Henry Moore in 1955.
180. Photograph of a wooden carving at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
181. Photograph of a sculptures taken at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
182. Photograph of a sculpture taken at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
183. Photograph of Locking Piece, created by artist Henry Moore in 1963.
184. Photograph of an elephant skull taken at Hoglands, artist Henry Moore's home and studio.
185. Photograph of Reclining Mother and Child, created by artist Henry Moore in 1975.
186. Photograph of Knife Edge Two Piece, created by artist Henry Moore in 1962.
187. Photograph of Two Piece Reclining Figure No. 2, created by artist Henry Moore in 1960.
188. Photograph of Goslar Warrior, created by artist Henry Moore in 1973 and 1974.
189. Photograph of Knife Edge Two Piece in front of the House of Lords, created by artist Henry Moore in 1962.
190. Photograph of a Henry Moore scupture.
191. Photograph of Three Piece No.3: Vertebrae, created by artist Henry Moore in 1968.
192. Photograph of Upright Motive No. 2, created by artist Henry Moore in 1955 and 1956.
193. Photograph of Locking Piece, created by artist Henry Moore in 1964.
194. Photograph of Goslar Warrior, created by artist Henry Moore in 1973 and 1974. Draped Reclining Figure, created in 1952 and 1953, and another sculpture also appear in the photograph.
195. Photograph of Sheep Piece, created by artist Henry Moore in 1971 and 1972.
196. Photograph of Locking Piece, created by artist Henry Moore in 1963 and 1964.
197. Photograph of a John Piper painting taken at the artist's home in Fawley Bottom, Buckinghamshire, England.
198. Photograph of a John Piper landscape painting taken at the artist's home in Fawley Bottom, Buckinghamshire, England.
199. Photograph of prints of stained glass windows created by John Piper taken at the artist's home in Fawley Bottom, Buckinghamshire, England.
200. Photograph of a ceramic piece depicting John Piper's Foliated Heads taken at the artist's home in Fawley Bottom, Buckinghamshire, England.
201. Photograph of a Ben Nicholson relief painting.
202. Photograph of artist William Scott at his home in Coleford, Somerset, England.
203. Photograph of artist William Scott.
204. Photograph of artist William Scott's signature.
205. Photograph of a William Scott painting taken at the artist's home in Coleford, Somerset, England.
206. Black and white photograph of a William Scott's Altnagevin mural, painted by the artist in 1959 and 1961.
207. Photograph of a William Scott's Still Life with Orange Note painted in 1970.
208. Photograph of a William Scott's Ochre Still Life painted in 1958.
209. Photograph of a William Scott's Orange, Black, and White Composition painted in 1953.
210. Letter from Spanish novelist Concha Espina to Terrell Tatum, professor of Spanish at the University of Chattanooga from 1924 to 1967.
211. Video recording of the first return to the congregation for Brother Spencer, a convert to serpent handling who nearly died from a rattlesnake bite at a tent revival in Ephesus, Georgia earlier that year. Spencer testifies with a bandaged arm.
212. Video recording of a service that opens with a discussion of a bite between Glenn Dukes and Paul Roberts, who was bitten earlier in the service. The recording also features a long sermon delivered by John Wayne "Punkin" Brown Jr. Authors Dennis Covington and David Kimbrough, authors of books on the Holiness Church movement, are present in the congregation. Before the end of the service Paul Roberts succumbs to the pain of having been bitten by a snake earlier and leaves early.
213. Video recording of a homecoming service during which several members of the congregation handle serpents. Video begins with exterior footage of church, worshippers arriving for service, and ends with exterior footage of congregants getting food. Preaching by Bill Pelfry and John Wayne "Punkin" Brown.
214. Video recording of Billy Summerford and others handling a particularly difficult serpent. The service opens with a prayer, which is followed by a group of women singing.
215. Video recording of Billy Summerford preaching to a small congregation. Women congregants lead singing and children are present. While the children are near the serpents remain in their enclosures. Billy Summerford and others handle serpents while a woman leads the congregation in song.
216. Video recording that opens with Joyce Summerford leading the congregation in song and featuring serpent handling by Billy Summerford and others. This recording includes testimony by Anne Matthews, John Wayne "Punkin" Brown Jr. and his father, John Brown Sr. as well as a sermon delivered by Jamie Coots.
217. Video recording opens with Lydia "Bugs" Hollins and two others leading a congregation of sixty-five in song. The service also features extended serpent handling and preaching by John Wayne "Punkin" Brown Jr., Billy Summerford, and Bill Pelfry. Several women congregants handle serpents, including Nola Faye Roberts, Lydia "Bugs" Hollins, and elderly twins. Joyce Summerford's singing is also featured.
218. Video recording of a small service that opens with a song by Joyce Summerford followed by dancing by J. L. Dyal. The service, which gets off to a slow start, picks up after Rayford Dunn preaching and delivering the line, "He's still here." The service also features laying on of hands, testimony by Bill Pelfry, Billy Summerford, and J. L. Dyal.
219. Video recording of service during which Jamie Coots preaches. The recording concludes with a brief interview with Coots during which he shows and describes his 1998 December 26 snakebite injury in the process of self-amputation.
220. Video recording of a service that opens with singing by Bill Pelfrey, Gene Sherbert, and James Wade followed by Billy Summerford's preaching and singing by Joyce Summerford and James Wade. Jamie Coots testifies, sings, defends signs, and preaches baptism in the name of Jesus Christ. Bill Pelfrey also preaches and Gene Sherbert testifies.
221. Video recording of a church service in which all congregants are local. The recording features testimoy by Virgil Porter and preaching by Jason Barnes and Bill Pelfrey.
222. Video recording of a church service that opens with a woman singing and features a childing singing as well. Billy Summerford testfies and briefly handles a serpent. Jamie Coots sings and handles a serpent and Virgil Porter rebukes videographers Hood and Williamson for recording the service.
223. Video recording of a church service with Bobby Smart preaching.
224. Video recording of a homecoming service led by Billy Summerford that features singing by children in the congregation.
225. Video recording of a service in which Billy Summerford handles a cobra and visitors from Morristown, Tennessee and Middlesboro, Kentucky congregations are present. James Barnes handles fire and children sing during the service.
226. Video recording of a service with a guest pastor.
227. Video recording of a service with prayer, singing, testimony, preaching, and dancing.
228. Video recording of a church service with music and testimony.
229. Video recording of a church service that features laying on of hands on an infant and serpent handling by Billy Summerford.
230. Video recording of a church service led by pastor Billy Summerford.
231. Video recording of a homecoming service that begins with music and dancing and features a sermon by Alan Williams on the topic of love.
232. Video recording of a homecoming service with a theme of "Believers are Doers." While congregants do not handle serpents in this recording, there is footage of serpents enclosed in boxes. The videographers open the recording by visually surveying the church building and surrounding land for approximately 2 minutes and 30 seconds.
233. Video recording of a service during which congregants handle serpents, however there is an excellent example of a man slain in the spirit. The recording opens with a variety of women singing hymns at the pulpit. The singing is followed by a sermon delivered by Billy Summerford.
234. Video recording of a service that includes opens with music and hymns led be several congregants. Congregants slain in the Spirit speak in tongues and handle serpents
235. Video recording of a service officiated by Jimmy Morrow with a small number of attendees. Jason Barnes and his sister lead the congregation in song. Glenn Dukes, who is visiting the congregation, handles first one and then two serpents at a time. Jimmy Morrow preaches in melodic tones, expounding on scripture. During the sermon he begins handling a serpent for a short time. The sermon is following by more hymns and the testimony of Rayford Dunn.
236. Video recording of a Saturday evening service during which Jimmy Morrow and Silas Crawford handle a serpent and congregants sing. The service opens with Bobby Smart preaching, receiving prayer requests, and leading members in prayer. SInging follows Jimmy Morrow sermonizes to the congregation while a National Geographic film crew and still photographer are present. Jimmy Morrow preaches and leads the congregation in the laying on of hands. Silas Crawford plays guitar and sings, and afterwords he handles serpents and testifies. The service ends with singing and donations to the church followed by a brief prayer from Bobby Smart. A sepecial segment of the recording shows Silas Crawford and Jason Barnes handling a large serpents at the graves of John Wayne “Punkin” Brown Jr. and Melinda Brown. There follows another clip in which Silas Crawford handles a scorpion.
237. Video recording of a Saturday night service opened with a sermon by Bobby Smart. The sermon is followed by singing led by Jason Barns. Jimmy Morrow and Bobby Smart lay hands on a member of the congregation as the music plays, and a member of the congregations dances. Jimmy Morrow preaches to the congregation and handles a serpent. The music resumes, again led by Jason Barnes. The service closes with a brief sermon and acknowledgement of visitors to the congregation who are welcomed and briefly introduced.
238. Video recording of a service led by Jimmy Morrow. Congregants partake in religious singing following a brief sermon. Rayford Dunn preaches to the congregation, and when he takes his seat, other members of the congregation testify. The first part of the recording ends with a brief prayer. The second part of the recording begins with the congregation singing religious songs, giving way to a sermon led by Jimmy Morrow.
239. Video recording of a homecoming service featuring testimony, prayer, singing, and preaching by Jimmy Morrow. The recording opens with testimony by Bobby Smart. Smart's testimony is followed by a prayer and music with Jason Barnes and Silas Crawford playing guitar. Jimmy Morrow then begins his sermon to the congregation while handling a serpent. Other members of the congregation including Jason Barnes and Silas Crawford handle serpents as well. Silas Crawford preforms Glossolalia and testifies. The congregation signs and dances while some members handling serpents. The recording culminates with Jimmy Morrow and Silas Crawford alternatively holding their hands to a flame.
240. Video recording of a service opening with the testimony of Bobby Smart. Sister Lynn testifies, and Brother Bob and Jimmy Morrow lead the congregation in prayer. Following this Jason Barnes, and Sister Lynn play guitar and lead the congregation in song. As the music fades, Jimmy Morrow begins a sermon during which he handles a serpent. The congregation joins in the serpent handling and after another hymn. Jason Barnes begins speaking in tongues and laying hands on the congregation. Other members of the congregation testify. Bobby Smart closes the service with a prayer.
241. Video recording of a Saturday night service opening with the testimony and preaching of Bobby Smart. Music and singing and dancing follow while Jimmy Morrow and Bobby Smart lay hands on members of the congregation. Jimmy Morrow then delivers a sermon to the congregation and handles serpents. Jason Barnes leads the congregation in song and plays guitar, and visitors to the congregation are welcomed and the congretation is asked to testify.
242. Video recording of a service, opening with singing lead by a member of the chruch who also plays guitar. Rayford Dunn takes prayer requests and begins a prayer. Music follows, and a female member of the congregation sings at the pulpit. Rayford Dunn then sings at the pulpit. When the singing comes to an end, Jimmy Morrow begins a sermon to the congregation. At the conslusion of Morrow's sermon, there is more singing and testimony from the congregation. Jimmy Morrow closes the service by welcoming a visitor to the congregation and closes with a prayer.
243. Video recording of a service lead by Jimmy Morrow. The service opens with Brother Russell preaching to the congregation and Jimmy Morrow leading them in prayer. There follows singing by the congregation, this time unaccompanied by guitars. Following the initial songs, a member of the congregation plays banjo as the congregants sing. Following this a member takes up the organ in accompaniment. Following the song, Jimmy Morrow preaches to those assembled and briefly handles a serpent. He continues his sermon and lays hands on a member of the congregation. The service closes with testimony from congregants and a brief prayer from Brother Russell.
244. Video recording of a service lead by Bob Elkins. This recording contains two services. The first service opens with Bob Elkins welcoming fellow preachers from other churches who are joining this evening’s service. There follows singing and dancing the audio quality of the film is compromised and mostly unintelligible at first, but improves. During the singing a member of the congregation handles a serpent. Music and dancing continue and more members of the church begin to handle serpents and the music gives way to an impassioned sermon by a member of the church. A member of the congregation named Darlene testifies. Following the testimony, the congregation sings “I Know the Master of the Wind” after which the guitarist stands at the pulpit and testifies. Music begins again, and when it ends, Barb Elkins stands and testifies.  The first service ends with a word from Bob Elkins. The second service, led by Bob Elkins opens the service with a prayer. Music follows, and Dewey Chafin leads the congregation in song whereupon many members of the congregation begin to dance. While this occurs, several members of the congregation begin to handle serpents.  Barb Elkins testifies about music and worship. Chafin talks about snake handling traditions and the perception of it in popular culture. He emphasizes that it is “not for show.” He attests that he has been bitten 106 times and speaks of the pain he and others have endured. The sermon closes with Bob and Barb Elkins giving short speeches on bites and Bob Elkins speaks about scripture and serpent handling.
245. Video recording of a service lead by Bob Elkins who speaks about scripture and serpent handling. Dewey Chafin plays and sings a song to the congregation. After he finishes, a female member of the congregation sings and testifies. Following this, another female member of the congregation takes the pulpit to lead the congregation in song and testify. Thereafter, Dewey Chafin preaches a sermon to the assembly. This song precedes and follows after the sermon. The music gives way to dancing among the congregants and a few members begin handling serpents. When the serpents are returned to their enclosures, Barb Elkins speaks and welcomes a member to the congregation and speaks about those recording the sermon. She gives testimony about persecution and suffering for one’s beliefs. There follows a prayer which ends the service. The video recording continues with another service which opens with singing, and a prayer lead by Bob Elkins. Music and dancing follow the prayer and several members of the congregation handle serpents. During a later portion of music and singing there is an imposition of hands on a member of the congregation. Music and dancing continue until the end of the service where a member gives testimony.
246. Video recording of a service which begins with footage outside the church. There is a short viewing of Jolo’s church regulations as the setup for the service is conducted. A brief cut of the film reopens with music in which Bob Elkins plays guitar, with musical and vocal accompaniment. Members of the congregation dance in a twirling motion and many others keep rhythm with hands or tambourines. Bob Elkins briefly give a sermon before the video cuts back to music and dance. During a brief interlude in the music, many members of the congregation bring out and begin to handle serpents, whereupon the music continues with members still handling serpents and dancing. The music stops and the serpents are placed back in their enclosures. Bob Elkins gives a sermon as he drinks from a jar of strychnine whereupon he calls for some of the other preachers in attendance to come to the pulpit. There is a cut in the film which reopens with more singing and dancing. During an interlude another preacher praises God. There follows more dancing and a member of the congregation handles fire. There is more serpent handling and one man handles several serpents at one time. Barb Elkins testifies.
247. Video recording of a service which opens with music, giving way to a sermon by Bob Elkins. The sermon ends with a prayer, and gives way to more music, dancing, and singing. Members of the congregation keep rhythm by clapping and with tambourines. Dancing congregants twirl in a style indicative of Jolo, Tim McCoy notable among them. Bob Elkins preaches again, and the congregation once again begins to sing and dance to music. At this time serpents are removed form containers and are handled by members of the congregation. The music ends and Bob Elkins once again addresses the congregation with a sermon, which ends with Bob Elkins dancing in the twirling style of the Jolo church as the music one again begins. Elkins continues to preach zealously as the music continues. Members of the congregation once again take to the floor and dance. Some in a circle with other members of the congregation, but more take up the twirling style.
248. Video recording opening with singing and dancing. The twirling dance indicative of the Jolo church in in evidence as many members of the congregation dance. The film cuts and begins again with the congregation still engaged in song and dance, but with several members handling serpents.
249. Video recording of a service opening with music and serpent handling. Many members, male and female handle and one female member of the congregation handles and dances in the twirling motion indicative of the Jolo church. The same congregant handles fire as well. The music comes to an end, and Jamie Coots preaches. Following his sermon, the music and handling of serpents begins again and lasts until the recording ends.
250. Video recording opening with an outside view of the church and surrounding landscape, which cuts to Bob Elkins who speaks about the church’s policy on handing serpents for new members and visitors. He ends his speech and asks for the congregation to join him in prayer.  The prayer ends and the music begins as congregants take to the floor to dance. The crowd is large and the pews are filled, even with many members standing and dancing. As the music plays, members of the congregation dance in the twirling style of the Jolo church and many handle serpents. Barb Elkins sings, but the recording cuts off and when it begins again a man comes up from the pews to testify on the pulpit, giving his respect to the Elkins. Carl Porter testifies and the music begins again. Thereafter he begins again, giving way to the testimony of another preacher in from South Carolina. He continues, giving a sermon to the assembly. Following his sermon the collection plate is passed around, followed by another preacher who begins a sermon to the congregation with considerable zeal. His sermon ended, the congregation once again opens to song, dance and handling of serpents. As the music continues, seven members of the congregation drink strychnine. One member of the congregation is overcome with religious fervor and he handles a serpent. Members of the congregation lay hands upon a member of the congregation.
251. Video recording of a service opeing with music. Lydia Hollins sings and plays organ. Members of the congregation dance and Tim McCoy and Jeff Hagerman dance in the twirling style of Jolo. After a brief greeting, from Bob Elkins, members handle serpents during an interlude in the music, and as the music continues, more members begin handling. Members of the congregation take turns singing, and after the music comes to a conclusion, Bob Elkins calls preachers to come and testify in front of the congregation. After bearing witness and a sermon by two preachers, the video cuts to more music and ends with Bob Elkins entreating the congregation to go and eat aftern the lengthy service.
252. Video recording opens outside the Jolo church, which quickly cuts to a recording within the church as members of the congregation chat and await the beginning of the service. The video cuts to music played on an organ by Lydia Hollins and Bob Elkins welcoming members to the service. Barb Elkins greets a member of the congregation. The music continues and members of the congregation begin to handle serpents including Lydia Hollins. The music ends and Bob Elkins welcomes members, calling them to raise their hands in prayer. Members interpose hands on others as the music begins again and members begin to dance. Melissa Evans handles a serpent and is bitten. Members of the congregation gather around her as she continues to dance. Members usher her to a seat and she receives prayers and leaves the service. Congregants continue to handle serpents and dance as music plays. When the music concludes, Dewey Chafin testifies about his belief in the serpent handling tradition. After this, music and handling by members of the congregation begins once again. When it comes to an end, Bob Elkins begins his sermon. When he concludes, the music begins again and another member of the congregation begins to preach. After the second sermon, another member of the congregation bears witness. Following this, members of the congregation approach the pulpit in praise. Music begins again and Melissa Evans returns to the congregation in new clothes. Members begin to handle again and throughout the service, a total of three people are bitten.
253. Video recording of a service opening with a sound check and members of the congregation conversing. Bob Elkins welcomes everyone to the service and calls congregants to prayer. Members lift their hands in prayer as the music begins. Lydia Hollins is in her usual place at the organ. Her singing opens the service and other members begin to sing as the congregation dances, many in the twirling manner specific to the Church of the Lord Jesus in Jolo, West Virginia. Dewey Chafin handles serpents. After this, other members begin to handle serpents. The music continues and as members begin to handle serpents, several are bitten. Two sermons are delivered by Glenn Dukes and Billy Summerford respectively. Music and dancing begin again and a female member of the congregation is bitten and there is a prayerful response from other members of the congregation as they lay hands on the woman. The music slows, but does not end while they attend to the woman.
254. Video recording of a service opening with music, dancing and handling of serpents by the congregation. Tim McCoy sings, and Dewey Chafin handles serpents. A member of the congregation drinks strychnine. Barb Elkins is present and handles a serpent from her wheelchair. Bob Elkins gives an impassioned sermon, and there follows more music and dancing. A female member of the congregation handles a serpent and dances while members of the congregation look on, some joining the dance for brief periods, she is followed by other members of the congregation. Many attendees have cameras and are photographing the event. The music concludes again and Bob Elkins brings a microphone to Barb Elkins who addresses the congregation and gives an admonition to the assembled. She laments the reluctance of visitors and congregants to join in the worship. Music once again follows her and Lydia Hollins plays organ while congregants sing. The music picks up tempo and members begin to dance and handle serpents again. A member handles and as the music ends, he begins to speak in tongues, before bearing witness and discussing popular misconceptions about the serpent handing tradition. Other members give testimony. Bob Elkins delivers a sermon which ends the service.
255. Video recording of a service opening with singing lead by Dewey Chafin and Lydia Hollins. Members handle serpents and dance in the twirling style of Jolo.  Many members take to the floor and take up serpents as the music continues to play. One member is bitten as he removes serpents from the box. Members gather around him and he continues to dance and handle. Barb Elkins is present, but confined to a wheelchair. After the music ends, Bob Elkins begins to preach and addresses the issue of snakebites while he preaches. He punctuates his sermon by drinking strychnine and handling two serpents. During his sermon, members approach the pew and begin to pray while the organ plays, and the music begins again. One member of the congregation who was bitten receives prayers.  Another member of the congregation preaches to the congregation with considerable fervor. A slow melody follows him from the pulpit and a member of the congregation sings. The recording ends with song.
256. Video recording of a Sunday service opening with singing. Though the attendance is low, the members who are present dance and handle serpents. Men and women alike handle including Lydia Hollins, Dewey Chafin, and Roy “Bootie” Christian. During an interlude in the music, Dewey Chafin testifies before the congregation, and invites members to worship and be welcome. Lydia Hollins takes up the organ and sings as the next round of music begins. She is joined by a visitor to the church, who is blind, but provides keyboard accompaniment throughout the service. Barb Elkins, once again in her wheelchair, plays tambourine. As the music progresses, the camera focuses on the players and viewers are given a close up view of Lydia Hollins as she plays. Larry Muncie sings and preaches on the topic of Amazing Grace, and pays homage to Bob and Barb Elkins for their roles in the church. There follows music and testimony from members of the congregation, including the blind guest pianist. Following the spoken and sung testimony, the mic is given to Barb Elkins who addresses the congregation and gives her testimony. After members give their testimony, Bob Elkins honors members of the church for their help over the years. After his address, Lydia Hollins takes up the organ and sings once more. Roy Christian testifies and asks a member of the congregation named Eileen to sing a song. Her singing brings the video to an end. This is the last service for Barb Elkins before her death.
257. Video recording of an evening homecoming service opened by Bob Elkins testifying. It is the first homecoming since Barb Elkins’ death. As Bob Elkins brings his testimony to a close, music begins and members of the congregation begin to dance while Roy “Bootie” Christian plays guitar. Some congregants dance in the hallmark twirling style of the church. Dewey and other members of the congregation handle serpents.  Dewey handles several rattlesnakes simultaneously, and, as the music ends, he addresses the congregation. As he gives his address, members of the congregation handle serpents. Following this, Lydia Hollins and Roy "Bootie" Christian once again take to their instruments and lead the congregation in song. Bob Elkins speaks passionately in defense of the church, and ends by passing the microphone to another member of the congregation who gives his own testimony. While he speaks, a female member of the church handles serpents. The music ends and Jeff Hagerman preaches and handles serpents. The video ends with Lydia Hollins singing and playing the organ.
258. Video recording of a service opening with Bob Elkins leading the church in prayer. Lydia Hollins plays organ and sings. She is accompanied by Bob Elkins on guitar and Eileen on piano. Members of the church dance and sing. As the singing continues, members of the church begin to handle serpents. Among the handlers are Ruby Jewel, Ray McCalister, Dewey Chafin, Larry Muncie, Roy “Bootie” Christian, Melissa Evans, Cynthia Porter, Verlin Short, and Richard Evans. Dewey Chafin talks about belief as he handles a rattlesnake. After he speaks another member gives testimony and take to the floor and dance as the music begins again. As music plays, three members of the congregation drink from a jar of strychnine. The music ceases and a visiting preacher gives a sermon. This is followed by a sermon by Bob Elkins during which he calls for the visiting preacher to give the final sermon of the service.
259. Video recording of a service with few attendees. Music and singing open the service. Eileen, Dewey Chafin, and Lydia Hollins play as members sing. Bob Elkins interposes hands on a child in the congregation as the music continues. Members begin to handle serpents as the music continues. When the music pauses, Roy “Bootie” Christian gives thanks and testifies. This opens the floor for several other members of the congregation to give testimony. Bob Elkins gives a sermon with the aid of several fellow preachers after the testimony ends. When the sermon ends, members begin handling serpents as music and dancing once again fill the church. The recording ends with the continued testimony of various members of the congregation, and a prayer.
260. Video recording of a Sunday service opening with piano and singing. After members file into the church, Bob Elkins begins a sermon and asks people to pay attention and to pray. Following the prayer, members unlock the serpent cages and music begins with many member of the church singing and dancing. Jeff Hagerman removes the first serpents from their box and others follow. Ray McCalister, Dewey Chafin, Buddy Jewel, Larry Muncie, Carl Porter, Rayford Dunn, Cynthia Porter, Ruby Jewel, Roy “Bootie” Christian, Glenn Dukes and others handle after Hagerman. During the music the camera pans between members of the church, both young and old, and focuses on a visiting preacher as he sings. He is also a point of focus as he lays hands on members of the congregation. Bob Elkins testifies and preaches to the congregation as they lay on hands on a man. There follows more dancing some in the twirling style of Jolo.  Kirby Hollins is bitten by a serpent, and discusses with others who have been bitten while his hand is elevated by another member of the congregation. Other members reminisce about previous bites.
261. Video recording of a service opening with a close up shot of the serpents and their boxes. Bob Elkins warns people who wish to handle the serpents and those recording to stay away from the snakes unless they are prepared. Several preachers from Alabama are visiting. Bill Pelfrey handles a large rattlesnake as the music as do others including Bob Elkins and several women from the congregation. Melissa Evans plays keyboard and Roy “Bootie” Christian plays guitar. Lydia Hollins dances with the congregation and Dewey Chafin handles serpents and testifies when the music stops. He thanks God for saving him when he died on the operating table and he says he wants to die by a snakebite when he dies. Following him, one of the visiting preacher from Alabama preaches to the congregation about miracles. His animated testimony ends with him laying hands on members of the congregation. The video cuts out and when it comes back, the blind pianist who sometimes visits Jolo, talks about music and starts the congregation singing as he interposes his testimony. Another of the visiting preachers from Alabama preaches to the congregation and his zeal incites the congregants to stand up in worship. Members sing, dance and lay hands on one another as music plays. Congregants once again take up and handle serpents until the recording ends.
262. Video recording of a service opening with Bob Elkins calling the congregation to pray for a member and reminding the reporters to be wary of the serpents. Melissa Evans and Eileen play and sing as members come forward to dance. Ray “Bootie” Christian plays guitar with several others. As the music plays, members of the church dance in the twirling motion indicative of the church, and others handle serpents. The music comes to a temporary end as a member of the church prays while he handles a rattlesnake. Jeff Hagerman handles a large serpent and is followed by Dewey Chafin and Carl Porter. Bob Elkins preaches to the congregation. His preaching culminates in more music and singing. Congregants, including Bob Elkins dance and sing. Members follow the music with testimony and preaching from a visiting preacher from Kentucky end the recording.
263. Video recording of a service opening with the new pastor of Jolo, Kirby Hollins, asking members to pray. When the prayer ends, music and dancing begin, Lydia Hollins sings and the blind pianist who is again visiting, and Roy “Bootie” Christian play. During the dancing, members of the congregation begin to handle serpents.  Kirby Hollins handles serpents and speaks in tongues before he passes serpents to members of the church and venerates God, and Lydia Hollins introduces a visiting preacher who is visiting from Alabama. As he begins to speak, the film cuts off and reopens in a different location outside a men’s restroom. Two men are conversing but there is no audio. The film cuts and reopens with an extremely dark nighttime scene outside the church as member of the congregation gather outside. The preacher can be heard in the background, as the men talk about their personal experiences with snakebites and the Kentucky laws that prohibit snake handling churches. They continue discussing the laws in several states which regulate the snake handling tradition.  One man tells the interviewer that he had been bitten 19 times. The video cuts once again and reopens with the visiting preacher preaching to the congregation. His sermon is well received by the congregation and they applaud him several times throughout. The video then looses audio but the camera reveals a scene of a member of the church handling several rattlesnakes simultaneously. Audio returns and music fills the film. Members including Kirby Hollins handle the multitude of serpents, which are being passed around by members.
264. Video recording of an evening service opening with singing and handling of a mass of serpents by Jolo Church members. The music ends and a female member of the church makes a tearful confession. Kirby Hollins calls members of the church to pray for the woman and Bob Elkins joins Kirby Hollins in laying hands on the woman as they pray. They can be seen anointing the heads of several members with oil. Another preacher takes the pulpit and gives testimony after a brief sermon. The blind piano player who sometimes joins the Jolo Church’s service is in attendance.  After his testimony, the music begins to play and members of the church dance. Melissa Evans dances in the twirling style indicative of the church. It is not long before members once again take up serpents as they dance. A man handles serpents and the music stops as he glorifies God. Following this members raise their hands in prayer and a visiting preacher interposes hands on a member of the congregation. There follows more singng and dancing while members including Bob Elkins handle serpents. The video breaks off form the service and reopens on an outdoor scene in the daylight. It shows a close up of a truck which is filled with the boxes of serpents. A man describes the serpents within. The snakes are carried in their boxes to the church as camera crews follow. Members of the church file in and greet one another as they set up for the sermon. Gracie Hollins speaks to an interviewer about snake-handling churches and her experiences. The service opens with song played and sung by Eileen. The song leads to Kirby Hollins asking if anyone has prayers and members chime in to ask prayer for members. Kirby Hollins thanks members and welcomes pastor MacArthur from Alabama who is visiting. Kirby then leads the congregation in prayer. A video cut reopens on a view from outside the church where the film crew talks to a man sitting in his truck. He talks about his experience. Following his interview, the video once again shows the service where Lydia Hollins sings and congregants handle serpents. The son of a man who died from a snake bite, who is visiting the church is himself bitten. Members dance with him as he, clearly in pain, tells them to carry on with their prayer. The video cuts to the stricken man sitting in another room with several members of the church who are watching him. His mother addresses the camera and prays over her son. The man talks to the cameramen about belief and bites. After this he recovers enough to reenter the church. Bob Elkins preaches as members assist the stricken man with his makeshift sling. Bob finishes his sermon and another preacher gives a sermon which ends the video.
265. Video recording of a homecoming service opening with banjo and sound check. Eileen plays piano and sings. Bob Elkins talks to the congregants about the service and tells members and visitors to choose carefully weather they wish to handle serpents. He also warns about drinking strychnine. He follows with  testimony. Kirby Hollins leads the congregation in prayer thereafter, and after the prayer music lead by a man on banjo begins and members begin to dance. As the music plays, member of the church, including Dewey Chafin, Jeff Hagerman and Bob Elkins handle serpents. Kirby Hollins begins a sermon after the music ends. THe serman concludes, and to Lydia Hollins who reads a passage to the congregation while her husband, Kirby, delivers another extemporaneous sermon about the verse. After the sermon, music begins and members come forward to receive blessings and lay hands on one another, as Lydia Hollins sings and plays the organ with the accompaniment of several other members of the church. Serpent handling begins again after the blessings and a woman in the congregation handles a particularly large serpent. The dancing and handling continues until the video ends.
266. Video recording of a service opening with song. Bill Pelfrey is visiting the congregation. After the music, Bob Elkins stands with assistance and addresses the congregation and gives a short sermon before drinking strychnine. After Bob Elkins finishes he relinquishes the pulpit to Bill Pelfrey who warns visitors about approaching serpents. He asks if anyone has prayers they wish to speak aloud, and members respond before he leads them in prayer. Music follows the prayer, and members sing and dance. Congregants handle serpents after a few minutes of music and many church members handle. Bill Pelfrey handles a serpent and testifies with one in his hand. After this testimony members once again take to dancing. Bill Pelfrey, who spoke earlier, speaks again as members of the church lay hands on and pray for Bob Elkins. After this, Eileen plays piano and leads the congregation in song. Bill Pelfrey takes to the pulpit after the music again subsides, and he gives a sermon which concludes the video.
267. Video recording of a service opening with song. Bob Elkins plays bass, Eileen plays piano, and another member of the congregation sings. The video cuts to a testimony and a sermon by a visiting preacher. He is succeeded by another member of the church who gives testimony. His testimony ends and the music once again fills the church. Congregants take to the floor and dance while Ray “Bootie” Christian plays guitar. Members can be seen kneeling on the floor, but the camera is behind a crowd and is blocked from capturing this in detail, and it is unclear why they do this. After the congregants rise, they dance together before the video cuts to a new song. The music gives way to dance and a Melissa Evans handles a serpent. She is followed by others. The dancing and handling continues until the video cuts out.
268. Video recording of a service opening with music perfomed by members of the church including Lydia Hollins, Roy “Bootie” Christian and Bob Elkins. As they dance, a member of the congregation removes and handles two large serpents at once. Others watch and dance to the music. The music is interrupted by Roy “Bootie” Christian handling, but it soon begins again. As they play, Bob Elkins breaks from the bass guitar to lay hands on a member of the congregation. The music breaks for the testimony of Roy “Bootie” Christian and others. When it resumes, Lydia Hollins sings and plays organ as Roy "Bootie" Christian plays piano. Another member of the congregation testifies before Bob Elkins takes to the pulpit and delivers an impassioned sermon. His sermon and the video come to a close as music once again fills the church.
269. Video recording of a service opening with relative quiet as members file into the church. The camera cuts to an outside view of the chruch as members continue to arrive. A woman hands a baby to Barb Elkins and Bob looks on while Lydia Hollins plays organ and sings. Music continues as members socialize. A close shot of Dewey Chafin’s hand reveals some swelling as he walks around the church and speaks. Bob Elkins addresses the church and tells them about the guidelines regarding serpent handling, concluding with a warning. He then calls congregants to prayer. After the prayer, members dance and Lydia Hollins handles a large serpent. The dancing is followed by more serpent handling by other members of the church. One member handles a large cluster of snakes before handing them to Dewey Chafin. The music dies down as Bob Elkins again calls for members to pray. The prayer ends and music once again fills the church. Members of the church dance, many in the twirling style of Jolo. The video cuts and reopens on a sermon by another preacher named Paul who ends his sermon by leading the congregation in song. Carl Porter introduces a member to the congregation and again there follows dancing and singing. Carl Porter handles serpents and other congregants join him. Carl Porter continues his sermon and alternates between music and preaching, until Barb Elkins takes the microphone and addresses the congregation. This is followed by a brief testimony from another member and more song and serpent handling until another member testifies. After he finishes, congregants pray and more music follows. Dewey Chafin handles serpents and testifies between songs. More members take up serpents and dance. More testimony alternates between music and once again Pastor Paul addresses the congregation. More song, dancing and handling follows and continues until the video ends.
270. Field recording of a religious service that documents the contemporary serpent handling tradition in Southern Appalachia.
271. Oral history interview documenting the contemporary serpent handling tradition in Southern Appalachia.
272. Field recording of a religious service that documents the contemporary serpent handling tradition in Southern Appalachia. The footage depicts the fatal bite of Ulysses Prince.
273. Field recording of the death of Ulysses Prince, a practictioner of the serpent handling tradition in Southern Appalachia.
274. Field recording of the funeral service of Barb Elkins, a practictioner of the serpent handling tradition in Southern Appalachia.
275. Field recording of the wake of Ray McCallister, a practictioner of the serpent handling tradition in Southern Appalachia.
276. Corporate newsletter published by Krystal, a fast food chain restaurant headquartered in Chattanooga, Tennessee from 1932 to 2013.
277. Letter dated 1914 December 14, from Private John M. McFarlane informing his commanding officer of his address for payment of wages before he and two other Privates sail.
278. List of personal equipment, undated.
279. Letter to Regular Army Reservists dated 1917 April 21 informing them that they may be entitled to discharge if family members have become dependent on the reservist after enlistment.
280. Letter from Halstead Dorey dated 1917 August 10 to Cyrus G. Martin that he was not selected for a training camp.
281. A receipt dated 1917 November 14, checking out an auger boring (An auger boring is a non-steered method used to install pipes) to the Supply Officer
282. Letter dated 1918 January 3 to Mrs. J. G. Sutton form S. Marcus informing Mrs. Sutton how to obtain the personal effects of Durham Sutton, deceased.
283. Handwritten list of personal effects of deceased soldier, Durham Sutton.
284. Memorandum to Capt. Bowlus ordering him to take a truck from Toul (France) to Chaumon-sur-Aire and Chaumont. The truck will deliver saddle soap and Stoker mortars.
285. List of 36 names with assigned inventory of army equipment supplies.
286. Travel orders dated 1919 January 10, directing Lieut. C. J. Martin to conduct a 20 truck convoy to Toul (France).
287. Form letter from John J. Pershing thanking his fellow soldiers for their war service in the army.
288. Special orders from John J. Pershing assigning 2nd Lieut. Cyrus G. Martin, 312th F. A. to the 22nd Division.
289. Special orders for 2nd Lt. Cyrus G. Martin, FA, to report to Camp Meade, Maryland after arrival from abroad, dated 1919 May 7.
290. List, dated 1919 April 25, of 48 officers of the American Expeditionary Forces, France, including 2nd Lieut. Cyrus G. Martin, F.A., who were relieved of duty in France. The embarkation orders direct them to report to the S/S "Huron" for transportation from France to the United States.
291. A 1914 set of general orders governing a sentinel's duties with instructions on how to post a relief.
292. A 1917 set of general rules governing members of training companies particularly in respect to the highest possible standards in efficiency, behavior, appearance and morals in training camps.
293. Baggage List for the 320th Field Artillery Unit dated 1919 April 18.
294. Offical report dated 1919 April 6 of the service of the 157th Field Artillery Brigade near Argonne, France from 1918 November 1-6.
295. Embarkation orders dated 1919 for several officers including 2nd Lieut. Cyrus G. Martin for the U.S.S. Huron returning from France to the United States.
296. Request by the parents of their deceased son, Durham Sutton, to obtain his personal effects from the Army.
297. A set of orders dated 1919 for Lieut. Cyrus G. Martin from the 320th Field Artillery.
298. Confidential special orders dated 1918 December 8 directing 2nd Lt. Cyrus G. Martin to report from Gien in France to Vacherville in France.
299. Handwritten training notebook dated 1917 containing class notes on rifle maintenance, camp sanitation, and army organization.
300. Pamphlet titled "The Fable of the Married Party with Words to Spare" by George Ade, illustration by McCutcheon dated 1918. The fable is a plea to buy Liberty Bonds.
301. A schedule of instruction for 1917 May 14 - June 16 for Reserve Officers' Training Camp in Fort Oglethorpe, Ga. Schedule includes company and camp organization along with marching and bayonet, signalling and sentry duty practice.
302. Handwritten training notebook dated 1918 containing class notes on camp sanitation, target practice, semaphore training, 5th Amendment, and battery positions.
303. Telegram dated 1917 April 30, from Francis Martin in Chattanooga, Tennessee, to Cyrus Griffin Martin at Columbia University, New York, acknowledging receipt of telegrams and date of arrival on train.
304. Three programs for the U.S.S. Huron: 1. Program for the 1919 May 3 Army and Navy Gala Day aboard the U.S.S. Huron. 2. 1919 May 4 Protestant and Catholic religious service itinerary of the U.S.S. Huron at sea. 3. Menu for the 1919 May 5 Farewell dinner on board the U.S.S. Huron.
305. Letter dated 1919 March 18, from Steve to Cyrus Griffin Martin describing his classes and regiment in France.
306. Letter from Corissa Shenefield to her cousin Emma Mirick sharing family news, including news of the birth of her first child. The Miricks are Martha Ann Bell's family of origin.
307. Letter from Emma Bell, then studying in St. Louis, Missouri at the St. Louis School of Art, to her mother Martha Ann Bell, then living in Mission Ridge, Georgia, in response to a letter from her parents offering her use or ownership of the family cabin in Walden Ridge, Tennessee. The letter recounts Emma's view of issues and events underlying troubles in her relationship with her parents. Emma offers a self-assessment of her conduct as a young woman.
308. Letter to Bell family friends Mr. and Mrs. Donnell from Emma Bell updating them on family news.
309. Letter to Bell family friends Mrs. Donnell and Family from Martha Ann Bell sharing family news, news of common acquaintances, and news of Martha's work as a teacher.
310. Letter from Martha Ann Bell and B. F. (Benjamin Franklin) Bell to their daughter Emma Bell, then studying in St. Louis, Missouri at the St. Louis School of Art, in response to Emma's letter of 1901 May 18. The letter is mostly the work of Martha Ann Bell, but both parents pledge their emotional, spiritual, and material support of Emma.
311. Letter from Emma Bell Miles to her father B. F (Benjamin Franklin) Bell, then living in Soddy, Tennessee. After updating him on the health of her infant twin daughters, Emma proposes that her father deed the cabin and its lot to her in return for her signing the family homeplace over to him for use during his life or in return for payment. Martha Ann Bell had bequeathed the family homeplace to her daughter Emma in a penciled will, and its frame house is where Emma and Frank lived as newlyweds.
312. Letter from B. F. (Benjamin Franklin) Bell to his daughter Emma Bell Miles dismissing Emma's proposal that he deed the cabin and its lot to her in return for her signing the family homeplace over to him for use during his life or in return for payment, in effect refusing to honor the will of Martha Ann Bell.
313. Letter from Emma Bell Miles to May Freudenberg addressing matters of motherhood, children, and parenting.
314. Letter to Bell family friends Mr. and Mrs. Donnell from Emma Bell Miles, her first letter to them since the death of Martha Ann Bell on October 3, 1901 and Emma's marriage to Frank Miles on October 30, 1901. Emma mentions difficulties in her relationship with her father in the wake of her mother's death. The letter illustrates her negotiation of the conflicting cultures of the mountain highlands and the fine arts, as well as mountain and town society.
315. Watercolor painting of lady slipper flower and fern.
316. Landscape watercolor painting of the Willow Towhead on the Ohio River.
317. Oil painting of a hill and trees.
318. Line drawing of ground ivy.
319. Watercolor painting of Lookout Mountain as viewed from Chattanooga, Tennessee.
320. Line drawing of St. John's wort.
321. Line drawing of ladies tresses and lady fern.
322. Line drawing of blackberry vine and rots bane.
323. Line drawing of Wandering Jew (plant).
324. Tone sketch of Catbrier.
325. Line drawing of cardinal flowers.
326. Line drawing of rhododendrons.
327. Line drawing of blue asters.
328. Sketch of tree branches.
329. Tone sketch of butterfly pease.
330. Sketch of white oak trees.
331. Tone drawing of dogwood blossoms.
332. Thumbnail sketches of flower pistils.
333. Tone drawing of road through wooded mountain landscape on Walden Ridge. Uncle Joe is Joe Miles, a relative of Emma Bell Miles's husband.
334. Tone drawing of Rhododendron flowers.
335. Tone drawing of rocky Walden Ridge landscape.
336. Tone drawing of Walden Ridge landscape.
337. Tone drawing of agricultural landscape of Martin's berry farm in Red Bank, Tennessee.
338. Tone drawing of roustabouts working on the wharf at Claraville, Missouri on the Mississippi River.
339. Tone portrait drawing of a child holding a cat.
340. Tone drawing of plowing.
341. Tone drawing of two boys sleeping in Summertown, Tennessee.
342. Sketch of a whiskey still. Uncle Joe is Joe Miles, a relative of Emma Bell Miles's husband.
343. Sketch of three young chickens.
344. Tone sketch of a kneeling boy.
345. Tone drawing of an infant girl, a relative of Emma Bell Miles on her mother's side of the family.
346. Sketch of George Levi.
347. Sketch of boy on a horse.
348. Tone drawing of infant girl, a woman and two cats. Catharine and Aunt Jen are both relatives of Emma Bell Miles on her mother's family.
349. Tone sketch of P. L. Sullivan of Saint Louis, Missouri.
350. Tone drawing of Emma Bell Miles's daughter Jean Miles Catino at age three.
351. Sketch of Frank Martin.
352. Sketch of Bessie Lord, a roommate of Emma Bell during her studies at the St. Louis School of Fine Art in 1899 and 1900.
353. Sketch of a steamboat.
354. Thumbnail sketches of steamboats and a flatboat.
355. Sketch of a Mississippi River pilot.
356. Sketch of an Ohio River pilot.
357. Photographic print of a watercolor portrait of four of the five children of Frank and Emma Bell Miles.
358. Facsimile of a full-length portrait sketch of Nell Scholze, youngest daughter of Robert W. Scholze and Gertrude King Scholze.
359. Watercolor painting of flowers and shamrocks on a greeting card inscribed "With Love."
360. Line drawing of a log cabin landscape on a postcard inscribed "Walden's Ridge."
361. Watercolor painting of a waterfall on a postcard inscribed "Walden's Ridge."
362. Line drawing of a log cabin landscape with white oak trees on a postcard inscribed "Walden's Ridge."
363. Watercolor painting of mountain shadows landscape on a postcard inscribed "The wood thrush is singing."
364. Line drawing of Signal Point landscape on a postcard inscribed "Walden's Ridge."
365. Line drawing of a log cabin landscape with a spring on a postcard inscribed "Walden's Ridge."
366. Watercolor painting of "Topside," the Summertown log home of Sarah Key Patten, on postcard.
367. Line drawing of hearth cookery scene on postcard inscribed "Walden's Ridge."
368. Unbound draft of Chords from a Dulcimore.
369. Handpainted edition of Chords from a Dulcimore.
370. Journal authored by Walden's Ridge naturalist, artist, and author Emma Bell Miles from 1908 May 24 to 1911 April 25.
371. Journal authored by Walden's Ridge naturalist, artist, and author Emma Bell Miles from 1911 January 9 to 1914 May 3.
372. Journal authored by Walden's Ridge naturalist, artist, and author Emma Bell Miles from 1915 June 15 to 1915 September 22. The journal also includes newspaper clippings of Miles' Fountain Square Conversation column authored for the Chattanooga News.
373. Journal authored by Walden's Ridge naturalist, artist, and author Emma Bell Miles from 1915 November 11 to 1918 August 8.
374. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long apologizing for taking so long to write and reminiscing about his "mis-spent" youth in Chattanooga, Tennessee. In addition to offering his opinion on Germans, Sullivan describes his leisure time and requests some more "dirty literature" from Long. Sullivan closes his letter with thoughts about going back to school after the war and praising the American Red Cross.
375. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long where Sullivan has borrowed a typewriter and is enjoying cigars and whiskey while composing his letter. Sullivan thanks Grady for checking in on his mother in Chattanooga, Tennessee during Sullivan's deployment. Sullivan also announces is transfer to the Air Corps, which will provide him the added benefits of a life insurance policy and increased salary. Leroy brags to Grady about his success with English women, citing his blonde hair as the source of his success.
376. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivan describes his new interest in poetry, particularly those penned by A. E. Houseman. Sullivan quotes a portion of The Recruit and proclaims that Harvards (training planes) are fun to fly, despite the dangerous mechanical issues that he and the other pilots are experiencing.
377. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long sharing a poem composed by Sullivan, entitled "Flight Sgt. Shaw." The poem is an ode to Sullivan's friend, Shaw, who Sullivan describes as "the most versatile gambler" and "a damned good guy."
378. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long featuring original poetry written by Sullivan, entitled "Belief." The poem observes the plight and heroism of soldiers and is accompanied by the following advice: "Don't read - please - unless a decanter is close by."
379. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long thanking Long for looking after Sullivan's family at home in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Sullivan mentions a visit to the station in Khartoum by the Duke of Gloucester. He laments the loss of fellow soliders in the battle of Marsá Maṭrūḥ and expresses amazement as the bulletproof hides of cocodiles in the Nile. Sullivan concludes his letter with a request for dirty magazines and a note of good luck for Grady, who has just joined the war effort in the United States Army.
380. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long recounting a hurricane with 58 miles per hour winds that passed without incident. Sullivan also discusses his flight to Erie, Pennsylvania, where he enjoyed scaring others with some acrobatics and nearly landing in the middle of a golf course.
381. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long describing the patrol schedule that keeps him tired and his "strict disciplinarian" commanding officer at the British Commonwealth Air Training Plan station located in Fingal, Ontario, Canada. Sullivan also describes his coursework on a variety of topics, including bombing tactics, equipment, and aircraft in addition to the wildlife and First Nations inhabitants residing near his station.
382. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long addressing the details of Long's last letter and providing a report of his latest news, including making friends with an officer in the Royal Air Force. Sullivan also remarks on his latest pay raise, which brings his salary up to $70 a month.
383. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivan addresses his training, including his first night flights. Sullivan reports that he has a penchant for flying at night, and that he has been "slated for night fighter." Sullivan also expresses his religious view, announcing that he is an atheist, and attributing his evolving beliefs to the British authors he has been reading. Leroy concludes by expressing his hopes for a foreign assigment after he has completed his training.
384. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivan wishes Long a Merry Christmas and asks Long to call his mother on Christmas day.
385. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivan recounts his New Year's Day layover in London.
386. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivan reports the graduation of another class of soldiers and his pending deployment.
387. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivans laments that lack of work and repetitive nature of his current post. Sullivan asks Long to keep his mother in his thoughts, "I'm not being pessimistic and I know this is contrary to what I've said before, but I don't suppose I'll be back to see either of you."
388. Letter from Alton Gliedman Jr. to Grady Long in which Gliedman discusses his possession of Leroy Sullivan's diaries. The letter includes a note from Sullivan to give them to Long in the event of Sullivan's death. Gliedman explains his hesitancy to mail them because of the Censorship Regulations but states he will send them to Long upon his return to Atlanta, Georgia. Glideman remebers Sullian as a "a dear friend" and states, "I miss him very much. His ready wit and everpresent smile made the burden lighter." Gliedman encloses as copy of a 1941 September 22 letter from Sullivan to Grady in which Sullivan explains that he is bequething the diaries to Grady in order to spare his mother the knowledge of the hardships of war.
389. Portrait photograph of Leroy M. Sullivan taken in downtown Cairo.
390. Letter from Leroy Sullivan to Grady Long in which Sullivan reports that he has been flying Hurricane fighter planes in combat. Sullivan mentions seeing Catharine Curtis, presumably an acquaitance from Chattanooga, who is working with the American Red Cross in Cardiff, Wales. Sullivan also wonders about what he will do after the war, debating returning to school or pursuing a career as a pilot or fireman. Sullivan offers his opinion of A. E. Housman and other authors and the Qu'ran. He concludes by describing his search for a mutual friend, Chad, on ships in Alexandria, Suez, and Cape Town.
391. Diary authored by Leroy Sullivan, a native of Chattanooga, Tennessee, during his service in the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II. Beginning on 1941 January 1, Sullivan recounts his training at the British Commonwealth Air Training Polan station in Fingal, Ontario before his deployment with the Royal Air Force in England.
392. Diary written by Leroy Sullivan detailing his travels in Africa and the Middle East as a pilot for the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II in 1942. He was stationed in Durban, South Africa where he stayed at the Clairwood Transient Camp on February 13, 1942. He then set sail for Cairo, Eygpt on February 17, 1942 where he was stationed for a few weeks before landing in Aden, Yemen on the first of March. After Aden, Sullivan returned to Cairo until June 18, 1842, Sullivan when he arrived in Khartoum, Sudan. On October 24, 1942, Sullivan boarded a ship to return to England, temporarily docking in Addis Ababa, Mombasa, and Madagascar along the way. Sullivan focuses his diary entries on his leisure time, rarely mentioning operations, presumably as a security measure.
393. Diary written by Leroy Sullivan during his time in the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II, beginning with a review of 1942 and flowing into a summary of the events of 1943. Diary entries are not dated, instead, the document read as an autobiography of Sullivan's life in late 1942 and 19423. Sullivan admits making a mistake in his choice to be stationed in England closer to the action rather than staying in Africa.
394. Course catalog published by Grant University.
395. Course catalog published by the University of Chattanooga.
396. Course catalog summer supplement published by the University of Chattanooga.
397. Course catalog summer supplement with corrections and additions published by the University of Chattanooga.
398. Graduate course catalog published by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
399. Course catalog summer supplement published by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
400. Course catalog published by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
401. Undergraduate course catalog published by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
402. Newspaper published by the students of Chattanooga University.
403. Newspaper published by the students of Chattanooga University. The date of this newspaper was misprinted. The date the newspaper was issued is 1889 January 7.
404. Newspaper published by the students of Grant University.
405. Newspaper published by the students of the University of Chattanooga.
406. Newspaper published by the students of the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
407. Yearbook published by the students of the University of Chattanooga.
408. Yearbook published by the students of the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
409. Oil on canvas portrait of Chattanooga University President Reverend Edward Lewis.
410. Oil on canvas portrait of the Grant University Chattanooga campus President Reverend John F. Spence.
411. Oil on canvas portrait of the Grant University Chattanooga campus Chancellor Bishop Isaac W. Joyce.
412. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Chattanooga President Arlo A. Brown.
413. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Chattanooga President David A. Lockmiller.
414. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Chattanooga President LeRoy Martin.
415. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Chattanooga President and University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Chancellor William A. Masterson.
416. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Chancellor James E. Drinnon.
417. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Chancellor Fred Obear.
418. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Chancellor Bill Stacy.
419. Oil on canvas portrait of University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Chancellor Roger Brown.
420. Oil on canvas portrait of the Grant University Chattanooga campus and University of Chattanooga President Reverend John H. Race.
421. Letter from Donald Davidson to Lula Ulrica Whitaker in response to a request from Whitaker for information about the Agrarian movement, in which Davidson describes the significance of I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition.
422. Letter from Donald Davidson to Lula Ulrica Whitaker discussing the need for Whitaker to consult "Southern literary, economic, political movements" to fully understand the Agrarian movement. Donaldson also suggests a number of pulished sources that provide contextual information about the Agrarians.
423. Letter from Donald Davidson to Lula Ulrica Whitaker that explains the origins of the Agrarian literary movement.
424. Letter from Lyle H. Lanier to Lula Ulrica Whitaker describing Agrarian views of industrialism and the need to balance "corporate enterprise" with "private ownership." The first page of the letter is missing.
425. Letter from Andrew Lytle to Lula Ulrica Whitaker in response to a request from Whitaker for information about the Agrarian movement, in which Lytle describes the role of politics and economics in the birth of the Agrarian movement.
426. Letter from Andrew Lytle to Lula Ulrica Whitaker that provides a biographical sketch of Andrew Lytle and his family.
427. Letter from Andrew Lytle to Lula Ulrica Whitaker that provides additional biographical details about the author, supplementing his 1934 July 15 correspondence with Whitaker.
428. Letter from H. C. Nixon to Lula Ulrica Whitaker describing his operation of a farm as part of his committment to the Agrarian movement, expressed in I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition.
429. Letter from H. C. Nixon to Lula Ulrica Whitaker citing sources written by himself as well as Donald Davidson that could supplement Whitaker's master thesis research. Additionally, Nixon takes a stance on the exploitative sharecropping system prevalent and government programs to irradicate it.
430. Letter from Frank L. Owsley to Lula Ulrica Whitaker expressing frustration with and addressing her question "Are you practicing any of the modes of conduct advised in I'll Take My Stand?" Owsley lists eight of the Southern Twelve's management of farms and plantations to exemplify the practice of the "doctrines of agrianism."
431. Letter from John Crowe Ransom to Lula Ulrica Whitaker that remarks on the coincidence of economic depression and increasingly popularity of the agrarian movement in the Southeastern United States.
432. Letter from Allen Tate to Lula Ulrica Whitaker that notes the connection between the Agrarians and the Distributism movement in England.
433. Letter from Allen Tate to Lula Ulrica Whitaker in which Tate directs Whitaker to The Hound & Horn literary quarterly.
434. Letter from Allen Tate to Lula Ulrica Whitaker that describes the origin of the Fugitive Writers and their point of view published in I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition. The letter also addresses the education and socio-economic backgrounds of the Southern Twelve.
435. Letter from John Wade to Lula Ulrica Whitaker expressing his opinion that the Agrarian movement has progressed and attesting to his personal practice of Argrarian principles, including owning and operating farms "chiefly for the privilege of paying taxes on them."
436. Letter from Stark Young to Lula Ulrica Whitaker referring Whitaker to Stark's published works to find answers to her questions about the Agrarians.
437. Letter from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill librarian J. S. deRauthac Hamilton to Lula Ulrica Whitaker regarding the disposition of Whitaker's 1935 University of Chicago masters thesis, entitled Twelve Southerners and Agrarianism.
438. Undated correspondence from Union Army Brigadier General William Thomas Ward to General Jeremiah Tilford Boyle regarding the capture of a prisoner in Metcalfe county, Kentucky and movement of Confederate forces in Glasgow, Kentucky.
439. Note from the 17th Indiana Infantry Regiment physician Samuel Munford ordering Lieutenant Colonel Wilder to rest due to dysentery.
440. Orders to transfer the 17th Indiana Infantry Regiment from the 15th Brigade to the 40th Brigade.
441. Formal praise for Colonel Wilder from Lieutenant Colonel Von Schrader.
442. Colonel Wilder's request and approvals for a leave to attend to his family, who just lost their house in a fire.
443. Letter from Terrell to Colonel Wilder describing a vacation in New York. Terrell alludes to an enclosure relating to ammunition for Henry rifles.
444. Orders to transfer the 17th Indiana Infantry Regiment to the 40th Brigade  by train with corresponding Assistant Quartermaster's Office correspondence.
445. Response from Brigadier General Morgan to the 1863 June 17 reports of theft and destruction from Colonel Hughs. Includes information about who received and forwarded the original complaint and Brigadier General Morgan's response.
446. Leave of absence confirmation for Colonel Wilder from the headquarters of the Department of the Cumberland.
447. Leave of absence confirmation telegraph for Colonel Wilder from the headquarters of the Department of the Cumberland.
448. Letter from Colonel Hughs to Colonel Walter describing theft of horses and food as well as the destruction of property in Tennessee by Confederate forces.
449. Letter from Terrell to Wilder approving an honorary (unpaid) military commission at the rank of Captain or Liutenant for one of Colonel Wilder's men.
450. Correspondence from Terrell to Wilder referring to Wilder's troop movements around Chattanooga, Tennessee. Letter includes an enclosed clipping from the Indianapolis Daily Journal newspaper recounting Wilder's performance in the Battle of Chattanooga.
451. Letter from Lieutenant Shields to Colonel Wilder regarding travel arrangements from Indiana back to Tennessee.
452. Letter from Colonel Mundy to Colonel Wilder discussing Major General Crittenden's performance in the Battle of Chicamauga. Letter includes a clipping from the Louisville Journal newspaper.
453. Letter from Colonel Mundy to Colonel Wilder apologizing for publishing private information about Colonel Wilder's relationship with General Crittenden in his letter published in an 1863 October issue of the Louisville Journal newspaper. Mundy also requests that Wilder ask his men to write accounts of Crittenden's performance in the Battle of Chickamauga.
454. Letter from Henry Jordan to Colonel Wilder describing the location, morale, and general condition of Wilder's Brigade during Wilder's absence. Jordan notes the 17ths preference for sabres. Jordan also briefly refers to the Battle of Chickamauga.
455. Letter from Colonel Wilder's brother, H. M. Wilder requesting that John forward a "descriptive list" to H. M.
456. Letter from J. B. Crick to Colonel Wilder describing Confederate troop movements. Crick also mentions the problems arming the soldiers in Wilder's Brigade during Wilder's absence.
457. Copy of a telegraph sent to Union Army recruiting officers, including John T. Wilder, in Tennessee that African Americans be included in U. S. Army divisions under formation.
458. Copy of a telegraph sent to Union Army recruiting officers, including John T. Wilder, regarding enlisting men in particular regiments.
459. Letter appointing John T. Wilder the chief recruiting agent for the state of Indiana. The date of Dec. 19 1865 listed in this correspondence may be a mistake, possibly meaning Dec. 19, 1864.
460. Recruitment agreement between Hungerford, Buell, and Wilder.
461. Letter regarding the re-enlistment and payment of Union Army veteran volunteers.
462. Department of the Cumberland citizen's pass issued to Colonel Wilder or bearer to transport 50 recruits from Knoxville to Indianapolis by railroad.
463. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife, Martha, recalling the movement of his brigade from Parkersburg, West Virginia to Spencer, West Virginia. Wilder describes Confederate ambushes along the march and describes a few of his men. He concludes his letter by asking Martha to send him word from home.
464. Letter from one of Wilder's soldiers, Lawson S. Kilborn describing the general condition of Wilder's Brigade and Kilborn's capture by and escape from members of the Confederate Army. Kilborn goes on to describe his own successful capture of prisoners, guns, horses, and wagons from the Confederate forces. Kilborn concludes the letter by asking for a recommendation to the governor for a field office.
465. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife, Martha, describing Union troop movements immediately following the Battle of Cheat Mountain as well as his application for a furlough to visit home.
466. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife, Martha, regarding his recent bout with pneumonia and the overall poor health of Camp Wickliffe in Kentucky. He also notes the promotion of several family members and friends.
467. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha, recounting his orders to march to Nashville as well as his prediction that the war will soon be over.
468. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing the Battle of Shiloh (April 6-7, 1862) as well as his brigade's 10 day march to meet Grant and Buell for the battle. Wilder describes in detail the state of the battlefield after the fighting ceased and estimates a death toll of 9,000 Union and Confederate soldiers.
469. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing his march from Shiloh to Corinth, and the necessity to construct corduroy roads along the way. John also requests that Martha send his son, George, to live with George Anderson.
470. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing his visit to his parents house in New York state. He speaks of his sister and her son as well as his parents and all of the family friends that journey to see him.
471. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha briefly describing his new duties commanding 2600 men and supervising African American laborers in preparation for the Battle of Munfordville.
472. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha scolding her for not writing sooner and apologizing for criticizing her child rearing skills.
473. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha that includes a scathing review of General Gilbert's performance in Franklin, Tennessee, as well as a request for Martha to bring the children and visit John in Tennessee. He also informs his wife that General Rosecrans rejected his resignation.
474. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife, Martha, describing his recent bout with flux, or dysentery and requesting Martha send clothes from home. Updates the original letter on the following Saturday with news of Colonel Mulligan's defeat at the First Battle of Lexington in Missouri and his own regiment's victory in the Battle of Cheat Mountain.
475. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing the capture of Confederate prisoners, horses, and supplies. He includes a post script asking Martha to join him in Murfreesboro.
476. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha lamenting the fire damage to the top of their home in Greensburg, Indiana as well as General Rosecrans refusal to permit Col. Wilder to visit Indiana and help Martha repair their home.
477. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing the capture of Confederate prisoners and his disgust for Vallandingham, an outspoken Ohio politician, anit-war Democrat, and a leader of the Copperhead faction. Colonel Wilder goes on to address concerns about repairing the damage to the Wilders' home in Greensburg, and suggests building a new brick home.
478. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha giving instructions for her to transfer ownership of his company in Indiana to herself and describing improvements to their home that suffered fire damage in 1862. Colonel Wilder also comments on the family's photographs that Martha sent. Wilder incldues a lengthy post script request for Martha to send him his old sword and commentary on the practice of slavery.
479. Letter from Henry W. Tutewiler to Martha Wilder written on behalf of Colonel Wilder. Tutewiler assures Martha that Colonel Wilder is well as closes with post script asking Martha to visit Tutewiler's mother in Indianapolis.
480. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha discussing Union plans for moving on Chattanooga.
481. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing his march from Chattanooga to Columbia, Tennessee and the small Union skirmishes with Confederate forces for position. John closes his letter with a request for news about a new fence at home and further includes a post script alluding to "trophies" from the Battle of Farmington.
482. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha relaying Confederate troop movements around Atlanta and asking for more letters from home, especially about the construction to the Wilder home in Greensburg, Indiana.
483. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha asking for information about the construction of their new home in Greensburg, Indiana. He also informs Martha that General Thomas will not accept his resignation. Wilder also sends home pictures of Chattanooga's Lookout Mountain and 3 mockingbirds for his daughters, Mary and Anna. John also wonders why Martha has not responded to his question of whether or not she wants him to send along an African American domestic laborer.
484. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha offering condolences for the death of Martha's mother and updating Martha on the status of his resignation. John also remembers his marriage proposal to Martha on her family's porch and inquires about Matilda, the African American domestic laborer he sent to Greensburg, Indiana to help Martha at home.
485. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha describing his successful capture of Confederate troops and destruction of property in McMinnville. Wilder remarks on his distaste for the Copperhead political movement and asks Martha to send him word about repairs to their recently burned house. Colonel Wilder asks Martha to send new photographs of herself and their children as well as to visit him in Murfreesboro.
486. Letter from Henry H. Wilder to Genl. J. T. Wilder concering the construction of a railway from Knoxville to Chattanooga.
487. Letter from W. H. H. Terrell to Wilder catching up on Wilder's involvement in the consutruction of a railway in Tennessee and requesting that Wilder visit Terrell in Indianapolis.
488. Letter from James M. Lee requesting compensation for the supplies, including oats and hogs, Wilder's Brigade commandeered from his Ringgold, Georgia farm during the Civil War
489. Letter from J. T. Wilder to his wife Martha making arrangement to receive a package from home and discussing his role as a recruiting officer in Nashville, Tennessee.
490. Letter to John T. Wilder regarding a young lady, who is possibly a tutor to be hired by the Wilder family.
491. Letter to John T. Wilder regarding the purchase of iron suitable for building ships in Europe and Russia.
492. Pass to admit the bearer in to the House of Lords for two days.
493. Letter to the United States Secretary of the Treasurey recommending that John T. Wilder be appointed to the office of Collector of Revenue for the 4th congressional district of Indiana.
494. Reference letter from England sent to General Wilder recommending a Governess Buehler for employment in the Wilder house.
495. Thank you note to Mr. Kingsley from Mary Fielding. Additionally the letter addresses compensation to be paid by the Wilder's in exchange for expatriating a British governess by the name of Miss Buehler to the United States.
496. Letter from President Rutherford B. Hayes declining John T. Wilder's invitation to join him in Chattanooga, Tennessee for a Civil War reunion organized by the Society of the Army of the Cumberland.
497. Letter from a Chief Secretary declining John T. Wilder's invitation to joing him in Chattanooga, Tennessee for a Civil War reunion organized by the Society of the Army of the Cumberland.
498. Chattanooga Times newspaper clipping profiling John T. Wilder in a an article entitled, "Northern Soldiers South."
499. Letter from S. E. Munford inviting Wilder to give a five minute address to the 20th reunion of Wilder's Brigade to be held in Princeton Indiana.
500. Letter from Philip Sheridan to Wilder recounting the Battle of Chickamauga and the death of Brigadier General William Lytle.
501. Invitation from Caroline Harrison to Martha Wilder to call at the White House at three in the afternoon.
502. Letter from Frank Anderson on behalf of the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War John T. Wilder Camp No 136 to Wilder in appreciation of Wilder's record and service during the war. Anderson also mentions his father's service in Wilder's Brigade and the Wilder's performance in the Battle of Chickamauga. Anderson encloses a request from his father, Eli W. Anderson, for a silver medal from Wilder's for Eli's command of a battery of brass howitzers in the Battle of Chickamauga.
503. Letter from the Wilder Brigade Monument Association to Stanford C. Kellogg regarding inscriptions to be supplied by John T. Wilder for a monument to Wilder's Brigade at the Chickamauga battlefield.
504. Address delivered by John T. Wilder at the dedication of the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park as transcribed by W. H. H. Benefiel.
505. Registers of the surviving members of a number of Indiana and Illinois Civil War regiments.
506. Letter from John H. Adams to Stuart Wilder recounting his service under John T. Wilder in the Roan Iron Works company John Wilder founded in Tennessee during Reconstruction. The correspondence includes an enclosed copy of an original letter composed in 1871 with a poem entitled "Gen John T. Wilder of the Lightining Brigade" which reflects on Wilder's Brigade as well as the post-war life of General Wilder.
507. Letter from David Stevenson to the People of Indiana soliciting accounts of Indiana's Civil War soliders for a book entitled "Indiana's Rolle of Honor and Patriotic Dead, with Biographical Sketches."
508. Letter from H. H. Benefiel to Generals Hascall, Wilder, and Rosecrans declining an invitation to a reunion of Wilder's Brigade. Benefiel also describes his development of a register of the surviving members of the Indiana 17th Infantry Regiment as well as a regimental history.
509. Statement of intention to create an Interracial Advisory Committee to address integration in Chattanooga public schools.
510. Suggested "ground rules" for group meetings for discussion of racial discrimination in public schools to be heald by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
511. Proposed philosophy prepared by the Chattanooga Public Schools shortly after the United States Supreme Court's Brown v. Board of Education decision to integrate public schools.
512. Letter from the Local 311 union of the International Brotherhood of Eletrical Workers to the Chattanooga School Board expressing their pro-segregation opinion.
513. Letter from Chattanooga Baptist Bible Center Committee on Public Relations to the Board of Education supporting the school board's decision to integrate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
514. Letter drafted by Raymond B. Witt in response to a questionnaire in which Witt answers a few of the questions but politely refuses to answer the remainder.
515. Letter to Raymond B. Witt from Frank S. Walker, minister of the Stanley Methodist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee offering advice on how best to integrate the public school system.
516. Letter authored by superintendent of Chattanooga public schools, Lawrence G. Derthick, suggesting that the school board might consider postponing public hearings regarding school integration until a plan of action to address the public is devised.
517. Letter from Josephine Bishop to the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee commending board's decision to integrate the public school system.
518. Letter to the editor of a Chattanooga, Tennessee newspaper, chastising the newspaper for fomenting dissent against the Chattanooga School Board's decision to integrate the public schools.
519. Letter to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, commending Witt's reaction to the public outcry against public school integration announced on 1955 November 15.
520. Letter to superintendent of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Lawrence G. Derthick, expressing support of the school system's administration's decision to integrate the public schools.
521. Letter of support from Herbert F. Smith, president of the Chattanooga, Tennessee chapter of the Tuskegee Institute Alumni Association, expressing support for the Board of Education's announcement to integrate the public schools.
522. Letter from an Atlanta, Georgia citizen to the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee in support of the board's decision to integrate the public schools. The author, Frank G. Collins, a self-proclaimed "white, Christian, American citizen" goes on to condemn the Chattanooga News Free Press's support of violence in opposition to integration in Chattanooga.
523. Letter from R. E. Biggers to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee reporting on a small meeting with members of the board's Interracial Advisory Committee and "leading citizens" to discuss the public school integration. Biggers informs Witt that the group debated whether or not a court case would strengthen the board's integration policy.
524. Memoranda from chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Raymond B. Witt, regarding Judge Darr's permissiveness in the Mapp v. Board of Education United States District Court trial.
525. Alternate plan for public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee approved by the Board of Education after the first plan, submitted in 1960 December, was rejected.
526. Document outlining the degrees of support the author believes are necessary to successful discussion and implementation of public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
527. Letter authored by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee to the citizens of the city explaining why the board advocates a gradual approach to public school integration.
528. Memorandum reporting an informal meeting regarding the Mapp v. Board of Education suit and public school integration. The meeting was held at the First Methodist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
529. Outline of information to offer white elementary schools regarding public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
530. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which public school integration is discussed.
531. Letter from Cartter Lupton to Raymond B. Witt regarding the Board of Education's desegregation plan for Chattanooga, Tennessee.
532. Letter from Chattanooga, Tennessee Board of Education attorneys regarding Mapp v. Board of Education appellate motion.
533. Letter from Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, to Martin Ochs, editor of the Chattanooga Times newspapers, thanking Ochs for his coverage of the school board's endeavors to integrate public schools.
534. Raymond B. Witt's notes dictated to file regarding the decision to appeal the United States District Court ruling in Mapp v. Board of Education.
535. Letter regarding the use of Thomas F Pettigrew as an expert witness in a appeal to the original Mapp v. Board of Education decision.
536. Raymond B. Witt's notes dictated to file regarding United States District Court judge Leslie R. Darr's memorandum opinion in Mapp v. Board of Education.
537. Memorandum confirmed the appellate court's affirmation of the United States District Court's judgement in Mapp v. Board of Education.
538. Signed decision to delay the Board of Education public hearing to announce their court-mandated plan to integrate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
539. Notice from the United States District Court to plaintiffs and defendants in Mapp v. Board of Education case to desgregate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
540. Order from the United States District Court to try Mapp v. Board of Eduvation with an advisory jury.
541. Motion to try Mapp v. Board of Education with an advisory jury.
542. Board of Education of Chattanooga supplemental brief explainging precendent of a 1959 motion in Brooks v. School District of Moberly.
543. Affidavit of the Chattanooga, Tennessee Commissioner of Fire and Police stating the numerlcal strength of the police force.
544. Motion to stay the enforcement of the order against the Board of Education of Chattanooga entered on 1960 November 3.
545. Memorandum to the superintendent of schools regarding the Civil Rights Act's impact on Chattanooga, Tennessee's plan to desgregate the public schools.
546. James R. Mapp, president of the Chattanooga Branch of the NAACP corresondence with the Superintendent and Board of Education citing statistics and legislation to argue for immediate desegregation of public school sin Chattanooga, Tennessee.
547. Special report submitted by the superintendent of Chattanooga public schools at a meetingo f the Chattanooga Board of Education on the subject of rumors related to closure and integration of Lookout Junior High School located in the St. Elmo neighborhood and Chattanooga, Tennessee.
548. Message from the mayor and county judge to the citizens of Chattanooga, Tennessee to maintain peace during public school desegregation in the city.
549. Letter to employers in the Chattanooga and Hamilton County, Tennessee, urging business to encourage peaceful behavior from their employees as the city desegregates the public schools.
550. Message from Commission of the Chattanoga Police Department, H. P. Dunlap to all members of his department advocating nonviolence and fairness in dealing with potential disorder and violence in response to public school desegregation.
551. Letter from James R. Mapp requesting the transfer of his children to different schools.
552. Letter from Benjamin E. Carmichael, superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools, to James R. Mapp in response to Mapp's 1963 September 8 request to transfer his children to public schools.
553. United States District Court Judge Frank W. Willson's order to remand Mapp v. Board of Education to the Court of Appeals.
554. Board of Education notice of appeal in Mapp v. Board of Education.
555. Raymond B. Witt's remarks delivered at a 1955 Chattanooga, Tennessee school board meeting, address public concerns over the landmark United States Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education to integrate public schools.
556. Initial remarks to open the first Board of Education Interracial Advisory Committee meeting, listing the committee's goals and objectives to provide an educational environment free of discrimination in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
557. List of residents of Chattanooga, Tennessee nominated to serve on the city's Board of Education Interracial Advisory Committee. Organized by race, the roster lists 27 white men and women and 12 black men and women.
558. Rebuttal to backlash regarding the Board of Education announcement to create an Interracial Advisory Committee in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
559. Statements prepared by the Board of Education regarding desegregation and discrimination in public schools and intent or organize an Interracial Advisory Committee in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
560. Statement in support of the Board of Education's stated intent to desgregate in public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
561. Transcript of the first organizational meeting of the Chattanooga Board of Education Interracial Advisory Committee.
562. Memoranda regarding overcrowded public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee created as a result of the Board of Education's decision to integrate schools in compliance with the United States Supreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education.
563. Report sent to superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools Lawrence G. Derthick by Harry Miller regarding an informal meeting that addressed the work of the Chattanooga Board of Education Interracial Advisory Committee.
564. Statement prepared by superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools, Lawrence G. Derthick regarding the issue of segregation in schools.
565. Letter authored by superintendent of Chattanooga public schools, Lawrence G. Derthick offering advice on how to manage school board meetings that address the public outcry related to integration by establishing roles for community participants.
566. Draft reaction of Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, to a public meeting announcing the board's decision to integrate the public schools.
567. Letter to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in response to Witt's reaction to the public outcry against public school integration.
568. Letter from Dudley Gale, treasurer of the Tennessee Federation for Constitutional Government condoning the Chattanooga, Tennesseee Board of Education decision to integrate the public schools on the grounds of overreach by the United States government.
569. Letter authored by F. Woods Beckman, state chairman of the Tennessee Council on Human Relations, and LeRoy P. Graf, president of the Fellowship House of Knoxville, announcing a 3 day workshop on school integration based on the successful desegregation program implemented in Knoxville and Knox County, Tennessee.
570. Letter from superintendent of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Lawrence G. Derthick, to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education regarding the board's decision to begin the process of integrating the public schools.
571. Letter expressing concern about the NAACP's plans to force public school integration in compliance with the United States Supreme court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education. Steele also asks chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Raymond B. Witt, lobby the state legislature to pass laws to "save segregation."
572. Newsletter and forward from the Chattanooga, Tennessee group Citizens for General Improvement pressing the Chattanooga Board of Education to move forward with integration and address the problems of overcrowding in public schools.
573. Excerpt from a script authored by members of the Board of Education for a statement delivered on WDEF-TV regarding public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
574. Address prepared by Chattanooga, Tennessee lawyer Ralph Shumacker in defense of upholding the 1954 Brown v. Board of Education United States Supreme Court decision to integrate public schools
575. Address prepared by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee addressing community response to school integration.
576. Transcript of an informal discussion held by members of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee regarding public school integration.
577. Letter from the Tennesee Society to Maintain Segregation to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Chattanooga, Tennessee Board of Education offering a questionnaire for Witt to complete. The questionnaire asks pointed questions regarding public school integration.
578. Roster of members of the Tennessee Federation for Constitutional Government and the group's October 1955 newsletter detailing the organization's efforts to stop public school integration in the state of Tennessee.
579. Draft plan to integrate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee authored by the Board of Education as required by Mapp v. Board of Education decision.
580. Draft plan to integrate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee authored by the Board of Education as required by Mapp v. Board of education decision.
581. Letter from associate director of the Highland Folk School in Monteagle, Tennessee to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Educaiton in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The letter informs Witt of workshops on upcoming workshops on public school integration being held in Nashville, Tennessee.
582. Draft plan to assign students to specific schools based by which the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee would approve student applications to attend schools based on a number of factors including building capacity and student-to-teacher ratios.
583. Draft resolution to integrate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
584. Memorandum from Raymon B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee regarding possibly suspending public announcement of a plan to integrate public schools.
585. Resolution authored by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee announcing the plan of desegregation for public schools.
586. Memorandum outlining the Board of Education's legal position with respect to Judge Darr's ruling the Mapp v. Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
587. Civil action submitted by Mapp v. Board of Education counsel for the defendants, Raymond B. Witt, to establish a second plan for public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee after the first plan, submitted in 1960 December, was rejected.
588. Judgement rejecting the first Chattanooga, Tenensse Board of Education plan to integrate public schools authored by Judge Leslie R. Darr.
589. Witnesses, questions, and evidence propsed for testimony and exhibit in civil court hearing to propose the Chattanooga, Tennesee Board of Education's plan to integrate public schools.
590. Brief history of public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
591. Remarks made by Raymond B. Witt, lawyer and member of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, on the topic of public school integration.
592. Document detailing the reasons why the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee must gauge the white community's reaction to public school integration court cases.
593. Draft of a statement from the Chattanooga, Tennessee Board of Education regarding the Mapp v. Board of Education civil court case and the board's plans for integration.
594. Record of Chattanooga, Tennessee Board of Education meetings, conference, speaking engagements, and public hearings from 1955 to 1961.
595. Minutes from a joint meeting of the Chattanooga and Hamilton County, Tennessee school boards regarding public school integration and the Mapp v. Board of Education civil court case.
596. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which schools are selected for dessegregation.
597. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which school zoning and desegration is discussed.
598. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which school zoning is discussed.
599. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which an informal meeting with the Chamber of Conference regarding public school integration is discussed.
600. Draft plan to gradually integrate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee one grade level at a time.
601. Outline of activities planned by the Board of Education to prepare public schools for integration in 1962.
602. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which public school integration and zoning is discussed.
603. Notes from a discussion pertaining to an upcoming meeting between attorneys representing the NAACP and the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
604. Minutes of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in the upcoming Mapp v. Board of education trial is discussed.
605. Notes created in preparation for an upcoming meeting between attorneys representing the NAACP and the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
606. Statement prepared by the Board of Edcation to appeal Judge Leslie R. Darr's decision to reject the board's first plan to desegregate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
607. Memorandum from Bennie E. Carmichael, superintendent of Chattanooga public schools to Basil T. Welch, coordinator of school organization, regarding the impact of school integration on upcoming building projects.
608. Memorandum regarding public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
609. Letter from T. D. Patton of Carthage Tennessee to Raymond B. Witt, chairman of the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee, regarding public school integration. Patton encloses a doucment entitled, The Bible on Segregation.
610. Letter from Contance Baker Motley, attorney for the plaintiffs in Mapp v. Board of Education, declaring intent to file a motion to dismiss the Board of Education appellate motion to be file 1960 December 30.
611. Letter from Contance Baker Motley, attorney for the plaintiffs in Mapp v. Board of Education, to Leslie R. Darr, chief judge in Mapp v. Board of Education United States District Court case.
612. Letter from Contance Baker Motley, attorney for the plaintiffs in Mapp v. Board of Education, to Raymond B. Witt, attorney for the defendants.
613. Letter from Carl W. Reuss, clerk of the United States Court of Appeals, to Raymond B. Witt, attorney for the defendants in Mapp v. Board of Education, confirming that the motion to appeal submitted 1960 December 30.
614. Letter from August W. Eberle, provost and dean of the College of Applied Arts, University of Chattanooga, to Chattanooga Public School superintedent Bennie Carmichael offering suggestions for successfully desegregating the schools.
615. An open letter to Raymond B. Witt, attorney for the defendants in Mapp v. Board of Education, from Jacob H. Frazier, urging Witt to appeal the decision.
616. Letter from a concerned citizen likening the NAACP's role in advocating public school desegregation to conditions in communist Russia.
617. Letter regarding a WDEF newscast concerning the Chattanooga Board of Education's recent motion to strike.
618. Raymond B. Witt's notes dictated to file regarding a recent telephone call with R. H. Craig, counsel for the plaintiffs in Mapp v. Board of Education, regarding expenditure of funds by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
619. Legal advice from Raymond B. Witt outlining the Board of Education's grounds for appeal in the Mapp v. Board of Education case.
620. Legal advice from City of Chattanooga attorney and assistant attorney to the Board of Edcuation regarding grounds for appeal in the Mapp v. Board of Edcuation case.
621. Open letter advising that the Board of Education appeal the Mapp v. Board of Education decision.
622. Letter from Raymond B. Witt, attorney for the defendants in Mapp v. Board of Education about using Thomas Pettigrew, professor of social psychology, as an expert witness in an appellate trial.
623. Letter from the superintedent of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee adding more programs to the Board of Education's Chattanooga Plan of Desegregation.
624. Letter from Chattanooga, Tennessee mayor Rudy Ogliati to Raymond B. Witt calling for a meeting with a "small group of other leading citizens" to discuss public school integration.
625. Letter scheduling a pre-trial conference to discuss a plan for public school integration in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
626. Letter enclosing a first draft of disagreements between the defendants and plaintiffs in desegregating public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee in accordance with the original Mapp v. Board of Education decision.
627. Letter detailing revisions to Raymond B. Witt's first draft of a list of disagreements between the defendants and plaintiffs in desegregating public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee in accordance with the original Mapp v. Board of Education decision.
628. Letter enclosing a final draft of disagreements between the defendants and plaintiffs in desegregating public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee in accordance with the original Mapp v. Board of Education decision.
629. Board of Education motion to dismiss James Jonathan Mapp et. al. motion to dismiss the appeal of the Mapp v. Board of Education decision to integrate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
630. Board of Education legal statement in support of their plan to desegregate the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
631. Outline of court proceedings in Mapp v. Board of Education hearing.
632. James Jonathan Mapp et. al. plan to desegregate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee, offered in opposition to the plan presented by the Board of Education on 1961 January 23.
633. Letter from the attorneys for the plaintiffs and defendants in Mapp v. Board of Education outlining the areas of disagreement between the parties concerning desegregation of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
634. Questions asked by the United States Court of Appeals regarding the district court's decision to desegregate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee in Mapp v. Board of Education.
635. Transcript of United States District Court proceedings of the public hearing to announce the Board of Education's plan of desegation mandated by the 1960 decision in Mapp v. Board of Education to integrate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
636. Argument against summary judgement in favor of the plaintiffs in Mapp v. Board of Education.
637. Motion by the Board of Education for summary judgement in Mapp v. Board of Education.
638. James Jonathan Mapp, et. al., motion for summary judgement in Mapp v. Board of Education.
639. Brief by the James Jonathan Mapp, et al. for summary judgement in Mapp v. Board of Education.
640. Brief in support of the motion to try Mapp v. Board of Education with an advisory jury.
641. United States District Court decision regarding Board of Education motion to strike certain portions of the complaint.
642. James Jonathan Mapp et. al. reply to Board of Education to strike portions of the complaint.
643. Board of Education of Chattanooga motion to strike on the basis that the plaintiffs are without standing to raise the question of teacher assignment.
644. Affadavit of civil engineers Benard Barnes and Ellis Spencer, describing the distances from the residences of H. H. Kirnon, Josephine Maxey, and James R. Mapp to Orchard Knob School.
645. Affidavit of the Chattanooga, Tennessee Chief of Polic and Detectives stating his belief that public school desegregation will result in violence and irreparable damage to the community.
646. Affadvit of a longtime resident of Chattanooga, Tennessee and member of the Board of Education advocating delayed public school desegregation according to the Board's Place of Elucidation.
647. Affidavit of the editor of the Chattanoga News-Free Press arguing that public school desegregation may result in violence.
648. Affidavit of commissioner and vice mayor of Chattanooga, Tennessee arguing that the citizens of Chattanooga are not ready for public school desegregation.
649. Mapp v. Board of Education plaintiff reponse to motion for summary judgement and related exhibit. Exhibit is correspondence from James R. Mapp, Josephine Maxey, and H. H. Kirnon with the Board of Education of Chattanooga requesting a plan to integrate the public schools.
650. Board of Education of Chattanoga brief opposing the plaintiffs' motion for summary judgement.
651. Board of Education of Chattanooga brief in support of James Johnathan Mapp, et. al.'s motion for summary judgement.
652. Judge Leslie Darr's memorandum regarding the plaintiffs' and defendants' motions for summary judgement in Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga.
653. James Jonathan Mapp et. al. request to deny a stay in judgement in Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga since the Board of Education has already "enjoyed a delay of between five and six years in the enforcement of the rights saught to be asserted by plaintiffs."
654. Board of Education of Chattanooga brief arguing in support of gradual integration of public schools citing grade-a-year plans approved by the Court as allowing racial discrimination during the desegregation transition period.
655. Judge Leslie Darr's order denying the motion for summary judgement and setting a day of 1961 January 9 to hear the Board of Education of Chattanooga's plan for desegregation of the public schools.
656. Court-mandated plan for desegregation of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
657. Judge Leslie Darr's memorandum overruling the Board of Education of Chattanooga's motion to appeal an interlocutaory order.
658. Mapp et. al. response to the Chattanooga plan of desegregation filed 1960 December 20.
659. Mapp et. al. list of objections to the Chattanooga plan of desegregation filed 1960 December 20.
660. Commissioner of Education and Health and member of the Board of Education of Chattanooga's response to complaint filed by Mapp et. al. on 1960 April 6.
661. Members of the Board of Education of Chattanooga's response to complaint filed by Mapp et. al. on 1960 April 6.
662. Superintendent of Schools of the City of Chattanooga's response to complaint filed by Mapp et. al. on 1960 April 6.
663. Board of Education of Chattanooga response to complaint filed by Mapp et. al. on 1960 April 6.
664. Special verdict of the jury in the case of Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga and two accompanying exhibits.
665. Mapp et. al. complaint to the Board of Education of Chattanooga to submit a plan for a nonracial public school system.
666. Brief authored by legal counsel for the Board of Education of Chattanooga for a pre-trial conference.
667. Questions submitted in advance of the Board of Education by the citizens and parents of the St. Elmo neighboorhood in Chattanooga, Tennessee on a varieyt of topics, including public school desegregation.
668. Progress report of the desegregation of the public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee for the 1964-1965 academic year presented to the Board of Education.
669. Proposal presented by superintedent of public schools Benjamin Carmichael to fund and develop an inservice training program for teachers in desegregated public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
670. Proposed plan to integrate technical and vocational training in the public school system in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
671. Memorandum from the Chattanooga, Tennessee superintendent of public school, Bennie Carmichael to all teachers regarding in-service training.
672. Survey and analysis that identifies the scope of programs and curricular limitations of five public high schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
673. Board of Education report on the topic of preparing Chattanooga, Tennessee for public school integration.
674. Timeline of legal actions and United State District Court decisions related to the desegregation of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
675. Superintendent of Schools of the City of Chattanooga's prepared presentation for the annual conference of the Commission on Civil Rights held in Washington, D. C.
676. Draft of school zones and organization in response to United States District Court decision to desegregate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
677. Minutes of a special meeting of a Board of Education meeting in Chattanooga, Tennessee in which members make amendements to the original Chattanooga plan of desegregation.
678. List of questions, problems, and issues Chattanooga public school teachers requested be discussed in forthcoming discussions on desegregation.
679. Minutes of a Chattanooga Board of Education meeting in which desegregation of vocational training, teacher school assignments, and reports of the progress on the desegregation of public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee are discussed.
680. Raymod B. Witt's legal opiontion on United States District Court Judget Frank W. Wilson's final opinion in the Mapp v. Board of Education case files 1962 April 20.
681. Notes from a pre-trial hearing in Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanoga regarding the proposed plan to desegregate public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
682. Irwin Katz's letter to superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools, Benjamin Carmichael, providing an assessment of the situation at Avolndale school, a recently integrated public school in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
683. Minutes of a Chattanooga Board of Education meeting in which the racial make up of teachers and overcrowding is discussed.
684. United States District Court civil docket for Mapp v. Board of Education. Includes a timeline of events raning from the date the compaint was filed on 1960 April 6 to Judge Darr's deinal of a motion for summary judgetment on 1960 January 3.
685. Transcript of United States District Court case Mapp v. Board of Education pre-trial conference.
686. Brief authored by legal counsel for the Board of Education supporting a gradual plan of public school desegregation in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
687. Memorandum brief authored by legal counsel for the Chattanooga, Tennessee Board of Education inlcuding appendices.
688. Document filed by legal counsel for the Board of Education stating points of facts in the Mapp v. Board of Education public school desegregation civil court case.
689. Document filed by legal counsel for Mapp et. al. stating points of facts in the Mapp v. Board of Education public school desegregation civil court case.
690. Brief filed by legal counsel for Mapp et. al. arguing that the Board of Education has faield to demonstrate why Chattanogoa, Tennessee public schools should not be integrated immediately, advocating desegregation at earliest date.
691. Document filed by legal counsel for Mapp et. al. stating objections to the Board of Education's plan to desegregation public schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
692. United States District Court Judge Frank W. Willson's decision to end public school segregation in Chattanooga, Tennessee according to a fourteen point plan.
693. Mapp et. al. request for a court order forbidding segregation in Chattanooga, Tennessee public schools.
694. Board of Education plan to desegregation vocation and technical training in Chattanooga public schools.
695. United States District Court Judge Frank W. Willson's order to integrate Chattanogoa Technical Institute.
696. List of school zones for Chattanooga Public Schools for the 1962-1963 academic year.
697. Statement prepared by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee to clarify their purpose for seeking an appeal in the United States District Court decision to desegregate public schools.
698. Transcript of proceedings and testimony in Mapp v. Board of Education heard by United States District Court Judge Frank W. Wilson.
699. Depositions from John Walter Letson, William D. Leber, Dean Petersen, Sammie C. Irvine, George C. Hudson, and Raymond B. Witt regarding Mapp v. Board of Education.
700. Summaries of a series of interivew with thirteen different public school teachers conducted by the Board of Education in Chattanooga, Tennessee in 1964 Fall. Note that the first interview of the series is missing.
701. Proceedings of the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga court case from Wednesday, 1960 July 20.
702. Map that locates each of Chattanooga's 45 public schools as of the 1968-1969 school year. The key to the map also lists each school's address, enrollment, and number of teachers.
703. Notice informing the Board of Education of Chattanooga of James Mapp's decision to appeal Judge Frank Wilson's August 9, 1965 decision to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
704. Letter from Chattanooga Public Schools superintendent Benjamin Carminchael to members of the Chattanooga Board of Education regarding a recent Chattanooga Times-Free Press article that alleged Carmichael's support of an accelerated desegregation plan.
705. Letter from Louisiana attorney John F. Ward to Raymond B. Witt regarding "the numbers game" in desegregation cases and federal oversight in the south.
706. Letter from Raymond B. Witt to Chattanooga Times editor Martin Ochs arguing against the newspaper's endorsement of the consolidation of Chattanooga schools.
707. May 1965 edition of a weekly newsletter published by Chattanooga Public Schools. This particular issue discusses the Avondale Project, a program designed to prepare Chattanooga teachers for desegregation.
708. Memorandum from U.S. Commissioner of Education Harold Howe II informing all superintendents that federal funding for public schools will henceforth depend on compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
709. Transcription of Raymond B. Witt's remarks at an informal 1965 meeting of the Chattanooga, Tennessee Board of Education. Witt outlines the legal details of their case against James Mapp and states that they need to decide whether to submit to court rulings or appeal the judge's decisions.
710. Article by Elizabeth L. Dalton, coordinator of secondary education for Chattanooga public schools, and Benjamin Carmichael, Chattanooga school superintendent, published in the Phi Delta Kappan education publication. The article praises the school board and citizens of Chattanooga for the peaceful desegregation of schools.
711. Proposal regarding the desegregation of faculties in 16 selected public schools of Chattanooga, Tennessee during the 1966-1967 school year.
712. Letter from Chattanooga superintendent Benjamin E. Carmichael to Raymond B. Witt pointing out discretions in a legal brief recently submitted by James Mapp, the plaintiff in the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case, and his NAACP attorney.
713. Report outlining the need for improved faculty desegregation in Chattanooga Public Schools and the subsequent changes to the school system's inservice program.
714. Memorandum from superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools Charles E. Martin regarding the exchange of teachers from schools of predominantly opposite races.
715. Data projecting the status of desegregation in Chattanooga Public Schools for the 1966-1967 school year. The survey breaks down the number of white and black students in each school for the 1965-1966 year versus the 1966-1967 year.
716. Letter from Nita L. Nardo, Title IV coordinator, to Chattanooga Public Schools administrator voicing questions and concerns with the faculty desegregation program to be implemented in Chattanooga schools in the fall of 1966.
717. Summary of progress made on a project funded by Chattanooga Public Schools and the federal government designed to prepare teachers for desegregation by "team teaching," or pairing teachers across racial lines in certain schools.
718. Statement prepared by the school board of Chattanooga, Tennessee about the new Chattanooga High School facility. During the desegregation process, Chattanooga High School was moved to a new building, and the old CHS building became the all-black Riverside High School.
719. Letter from A.R. Lavik to Chattanooga Public Schools attorney Raymond Witt that reviews previous national legal cases related to faculty desegregation.
720. Series of statements describing the history and attendance demographics of four of the public high schools in Chattanooga, Tennessee: Brainerd High School, Riverside High School, Howard High School, and Kirkman Technical School.
721. Fourth official report created in compliance with a United States District Court order that a progress report be submitted with every annual step in Chattanooga Public School's plan of desegregation. Includes zoning maps for all schools as of the 1965-1966 school year.
722. Official report that breaks down the racial composition of each Chattanooga public school's staff for the 1969-1970 school year.
723. Fifth official report created in compliance with a United States District Court order that a progress report be submitted with every annual step in Chattanooga Public School's plan of desegregation. 1966 marked the final step in the desegregation process, as grades 8-12 were integrated.
724. Chattanooga Public Schools superintendent Benjamin E. Carmichael's recommendation that the Chattanooga Board of Education members desegregate the tenth grade during the 1965-1966 school year.
725. Order issued by presiding judge of the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case Frank Wilson mandating the full desegregation of all schools in September 1966.
726. Letter from Raymond B. Witt to fellow attorney John T. Henniss discussing constitutional rights and their legal impact on desegregation cases.
727. Office memorandum from attorney A. Roy Lavik to Raymond B. Witt reviewing recent court decisions regarding the affirmative responsibility of school boards in dismantling segregation.
728. List of 132 questions regarding the specifics of racial segregation in Chattanooga public schools, submitted to United States District Court for Avon Williams to answer.
729. Chattanooga school boards' responses to interrogatories from James Mapp and Avon Williams about the racial makeup of schools and school facility usage.
730. Motion for further relief written by attorney for James Mapp, requests that the United States District Court require the Chattanooga Board of Education to submit a plan which would have the "affirmative effect" of ended segregation in Chattanooga public schools.
731. Legal memorandum filed by the Raymond Witt and the Chattanooga school board with United States District Court, asks that they require Avon Williams to be more specific in his questioning regarding desegregation.
732. List of questions regarding Chattanooga Public Schools' desegregation practices to be answered in United States District Court under oath.
733. Brief submitted to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee by attorneys for James Mapp, outlines the history of desegregation in Chattanooga public schools and demands full and complete integration.
734. Transcript of hearing in the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case that took place on May 1, 1965, recorded by court reporter F.B. Downing.
735. Letter from Benjamin Carmichael, former superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools, to Raymond Witt commending him on his handling of the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case.
736. Memorandum filed by United States District Court Judge Frank Wilson ordering that defendents in the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case file a brief regarding their faculty assignment practices.
737. Brief filed in United States District Court explaining the Chattanooga school board's opposition to NAACP attorney Avon Williams's previously filed motion for further relief.
738. Chattanooga Board of Education's brief submitted to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, outlines reasons why the Chattanooga Board of Education opposes immediate and full desegregation as demanded by James Mapp and his NAACP attorney
739. Motion for further relief submitted to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee by NAACP attorneys for James Mapp, requests the complete desegregation of all Chattanooga public schools by September 1965.
740. Brief submitted to United States District Court by the Chattanooga school board denying the "existance of any practice or policy having the intent or effect of maintaining segregation in the school system."
741. Raymond B. Witt's personal notes regarding upcoming proceedings in the Mapp v. Chattanooga Board of Education case.
742. Legal document filed by James Mapp and Avon Williams with United States District Court, accuses the Chattanooga school board of "perpetuating a dual school system" and asks for immediate relief in their case.
743. Notes pertaining to Florida and Virginia legal cases involving staff desegregation in public schools. Written and put to file by a lawyer from the firm defending the Chattanooga Board of Education.
744. Office memorandum from Raymond B. Witt to A. Roy Lavik requesting a review of Supreme Court cases related to the affirmative responsibilities of school boards in desegregation
745. Office memorandum from Raymond B. Witt to fellow attorney John T. Henniss regarding the six points of James Mapp's motion for further relief. Includes discussion of the relationship between school zones and housing patterns.
746. List of objections filed by Avon Williams with United States District Court, protests interrogatories previously asked of Williams by the Chattanooga school board.
747. Order by United States District Court Judge Frank Wilson requiring the plaintiffs in the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case to reply to defendants' interrogatories.
748. Legal brief submitted to United States District Court requesting that the Chattanooga school board be required to submit more detailed information about the exact racial composition of its schools.
749. Raymond B. Witt's memorandum to members of the Chattanooga Board of Education relaying events that transpired at the United States Court of Appeals hearing in Cincinnati on December 13, 1966.
750. Notes dictated to file by Raymond B. Witt preparing for an appeal argument in the Mapp v. Board of Education of Chattanooga case. Emphasizes the predominance of "quality of educational instruction" over racial balance.
751. Teacher desegregation proposal submitted to the U.S. Office of Education for federal funding for Chattanooga Public Schools under Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
752. Letter from Georgia congressman Phil M. Landrum to John W. Gardner, secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, protesting the Department of Health, Education and Welfare's "Revised Statement of Policies for School Desegregation Plans under Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964."
753. Letter from Frank Sloan, regional director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, to Horace Traylor, head of the Chattanooga Community Action Program, informing Traylor that Chattanooga's zoning practices for Headstart facilities appeared to be racially biased and that new zones must be created.
754. Letter from Raymond B. Witt to Dean Holden, director of administrative services for Chattanooga Public Schools, inquiring about student transfers made during the 1966-1967 school year.
755. Memorandum from U.S. Commissioner of Education Harold Howe II to all public school superintendents and state school officers concerning the 1966 United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare policies regarding school desegregation.
756. Letter from Raymond B. Witt to Chattanooga Public Schools superintendent Benajmin E. Carmichael reviewing and evaluation a desegregation plan recently adopted by the school board of Richmond, Virginia.
757. Letter from Chattanooga Public Schools superintendent Benjamin Carmichael to Dr. Herbert Wey, education professor at University of Miami, discussing preparation measures for desegregation.
758. Letter from attorney Raymond Witt to Horace J. Traylor, president of the Chattanooga Community Action Program, discussing the ramifications of desegregation in Chattanooga's Headstart program.
759. Office memorandum from Raymond B. Witt to fellow attorney John L. Alley outlining steps to be taken should funding from the Office of Economic Opportunity be terminated due to racially segregated zoning practices.
760. Letter from Benjamin Carmichael, superintendent of Chattanooga Public Schools, to Roy Batchelor, directior of the Community Action Board, concerning Chattanooga's Head Start program and desegregation in those facilities.
761. Letter to be submitted to the Office Economic Opportunity outlining zoning changes for Chattanooga's Headstart center, sent to superintendent Benjamin Carmichael.
762. Oral history interview documenting the history of the Cold War conducted by students enrolled in enrolled in the Professor Susan Eckelmann Berghel's HIST 3920 The U.S. and the Cold War in 2016.
